[Music]
I'm still optimistic actually that we
are not talking about an overvaluation.
I wouldn't say that the whole market is
overvalued.
>> We've heard about all the AI
infrastructure investment and that's
continuing to drive earnings.
>> You look at what's been happening in the
AI stocks. We've got all the classic
symptoms of a bubble. I do think it is a
bubble.
>> Broadly speaking, the markets are
holding up okay.
>> In situations like this, it's always
okay till it isn't okay. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance with Jonathan
Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and An Marie
Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning from our
audience worldwide. Boomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Monday, coming off a week of gains
attempting to park the credit fears.
Equity futures in Shankai as President
Trump lifts his top demands before
meeting with China. Investors are
looking ahead to this week's delayed
inflation report. That number dropping
on Friday. So, in this data desert that
we've been experiencing, we're finally
going to get CPI. In the meantime, the
president really taking the knob down
slightly. It's like a low simmer right
now, Jonathan, when it comes to the
rhetoric between China and Washington.
And what the president is talking about
is his top three demands, rare earths,
fentinel, and soybeans. All the policy
issues that we've been discussing around
this table for months.
>> So, let's go to soybeans. That feels
like the lowhanging fruit, if we can
call it that. We're going to revisit
repurchase agreements. Purchase
agreements. I imagine between China and
the United States. The question I have
is what does China want in return?
Tariff relief or something bigger than
that?
>> Well, I think twofold. On one point,
it's that tariff relief to make sure
that the president is not going to
ratchet up that threat of 100% on
tariffs. The other is of course they
probably want access to more advanced
technology. The highlevel Nvidia chips
that that have been blocked then put
back on that they were shrugging off.
They want to make sure that they can
have access to a lot of this as well as
there have been threats in the past and
Maria Barto Romo asked the president
about this over the weekend. What about
the Chinese companies that list on US
stock exchanges? That's been a rumor of
a threat potentially that this
administration can pull. Maybe they want
that taken off the table.
>> So this week is the meeting before the
meeting. It's the meeting between
Treasury Secretary Scott Bess and his
counterpart in China apparently over in
Malaysia before the big get together a
week away. So I think this is really
where we can finally establish and read
the tea leaves on what was agreed upon
before the two leaders sit down. And you
make this point a lot. Usually it
wouldn't be last left to the last week
before the premier leaders meet but in
this juncture they are. So whatever
comes out of Halifang and Scott
Bessant's meeting is likely it's going
to be agreed upon between President
Trump and Xi Jinping.
>> The US and China. The relationship
between the two were the epicenter some
of the price action over the last week.
This morning, we're focused on one thing
in the pre-market. Amazon. Not much
movement, but AWS very much in focus
this morning, identifying a problem
causing widespread disruption affecting
the likes of Perplexity, Coinbase, Robin
Hood, and potentially stress,
potentially snow day for adults.
Disruptions reported across multiple
platforms, corporate messaging service,
Slack, conference calling firm Zoom. I
think this is the kind of thing that
people might want to wake up to on
Monday morning.
>> Absolutely. because potentially if
you're trying to order an Uber or a
lift, there's going to be challenges on
getting to work to your point of being
maybe a snow day for adults. Um, this is
a problem in the US East Coast. So,
anyone that's working on Wall Street,
this is something that you need to take
a look at. They are working on it, but
they've had thousands and thousands of
requests that there's going there's a
ton of shortages. It's degrading the
services for several of these companies.
So, we're going to work with this
disruption Monday morning. And just for
the record, if it wasn't for Amarie, I
wouldn't be sitting in the seat this
morning because AMH called the car for
me because the lift service wasn't
working.
>> It was working for me. I had service.
>> So there you go. Equity futures on the
S&P positive so far. We're higher by
0.3%. Coming up this hour, Russ Cost of
Black Rockck stocks add to last week's
gains. Terry Haynes of Pangia Policy as
President Trump lists demands for China
and Inis McI of Oxford Economics on
whether AI is masking an investment
recession. We begin this hour with
stocks inching higher as investors await
a week of earnings and a delayed CPI
report. Russ Krick of Black Rockck
writing, "We expect the economy to
remain resilient. Fiscal tailwinds,
monetary easing, AI momentum, and
favorable seasonals should support
stocks into year end." Russ joins us now
for more. Russ, good morning, sir. Is
there anything about the credit risk,
the credit issues of the past few weeks
that undermines that argument?
>> Good morning, Jonathan. I I think you've
got to be aware of the credit markets,
but just to be clear, if you look at the
broader aggregates, we really haven't
seen anything that is that disruptive in
credit markets. And we went through a
similar incident back in March of 20123
with the regional banks, as you'll
remember. So, I do think you always want
to be aware of the credit markets, but
as you mentioned in the introduction,
there are three factors right now that
are tailwind. The economy has been
resilient. You've seen economic
estimates come back, earnings estimates
with that. the Fed is cutting into
strength and the AI momentum in the near
term looks pretty solid. So as you think
about the next call of three to six
months in the absence of any new news, I
do think that takes the market higher.
>> So Russ, as you noted back in 23, there
was a concern over regional banks, but
largely almost exclusively over interest
rate risk. Here we are two years later
focused on credit risk and the risk that
maybe the cycle is turning. Russ, is
there something else that you would look
for that suggests that maybe there's no
evidence of that at all? that these are
idiosyncratic issues that if you look
more broadly things still look pretty
good.
>> Yeah. Well, look, I think there are a
couple of issues. The first is you have
to acknowledge that some of the stress
you've seen so far has happened with
companies that are more geared to lower
income consumers and there is stress
with lower income consumers. We've seen
that for some time. That's been
occurring since rates were going up uh
over the last one to two years. So, that
is a pocket of stress. However, if I
look at the broader economy, if I look
at the wealth effect, if I look at where
the labor market is, if I look where
disposable income is, do I see an
economy that is evidencing the type of
stress that would get you really worried
about credit markets? Probably not.
Again, pockets of concern, places you
want to be aware of, but in aggregate,
you still have a very resilient and
robust economy, which should be
supportive of not only the credit
market, but also the stock market.
>> So, Russ, let's build on some of this.
So you see reasons maybe to be
comfortable with the idea that this does
not migrate up income cohorts and
ultimately topple the broader economy.
With that in mind, Russ, what would you
isolate? Parts of the equity market you
would avoid for now and what would you
lean into?
>> Well, you it's interesting the parts of
the equity market that you've done well
to avoid have actually been the safest
parts. uh you know this has been really
going back to July of 2024 epistoically
a very you know periods a lower quality
rally in other words high beta companies
with less profitability have also been
leading what's been lagging companies
that are stable but not evidencing much
earnings growth so areas like staples
for example you know we've been
underweight for some time what do we
like we do like companies one that are
geared to the AI theme we've liked that
for several years we've kept that we
will trade around it, but it's still a
theme in the portfolio. But the other is
again looking for where do we go going
to see that cyclical impulse show up in
earnings and that is in select
industrials. It is in select consumer
names and again I think part of that is
a play on an economy that's much
stronger than people expected back in
April and May.
>> When you think about consumer staples
and also some of these companies that
you say don't have a ton of earnings
growth or you haven't seen it just yet.
Isn't the concern looking forward that
they're going to challenge to generate
revenue with the tariff impulse that
everyone is saying we could expect at
the end of the year in 2026?
>> Well, the tariff impulse I think hits
the market in a lot of ways and the
truth is look there's still a lot of
uncertainty. Clearly, there's a concern
about how disruptive tariffs might be on
inflation and also on company margins.
So far, companies have done a remarkable
job of navigating that by changing where
they source by being nimble in terms of
how they price their products or
services. So, it's not as if it is not
an issue, but you look at the earnings
growth we saw in Q2, the early
indications we're getting in Q3. So far,
again, I think that narrative of
companies being able to navigate the
existing tariff environment regime,
whatever you want to call it, I think
that is still intact. So Russ, could we
call time on the on the tariff
uncertainty and struggles that this
market has had?
>> No, no, I don't engulf Tom on it. And
again, I I think it actually is
indicative of a broader trend, which is
that really since the pandemic and
certainly since inflation kicked in in
21 and 22, we've been in a market which
in some ways is fundamentally different
from the 10ens and the years. and that
macro volatility has been higher and
that's particularly been true in
inflation and that's meant that when you
build a portfolio you think about how
you're allocating you have to think
about it differently you know bonds have
been very effective in a portfolio for
example as a source of income on the
other hand they are less effective as a
hedge than they were 10 years ago so you
know I would put the tariff issue in the
broader context of the macro environment
is more volatile than it was 10 years
ago and that has to be part of how you
build the portfolio
One example, you know, to my mind, this
is why gold is at 4,200 an ounce.
>> So Russ, just to build on that gold
position, are you saying that's a
substitute for treasuries?
>> No. No, I don't think it's a substitute
for treasuries, but I do think it is a
more effective diversifier
uh than it might have been 10 years ago
in an environment where investors are
more worried about store value. They're
worried about the long-term fiscal
impulse, not just in the US, in Japan,
in France, in the UK. They're worried
about the dollar. So, how do you think
about positioning a portfolio for those
types of risks? Gold is, to my mind, one
of the parts of the portfolio. Now, the
reason I say it's not a replacement for
treasuries is, you know, the old model
of a 6040 portfolio. Very few people are
going to have 40% of their portfolio in
gold. But I do think as part of that
mix, it definitely diversifies some of
these risks, we're dealing with more
today than we were 10 years ago.
>> So Russ, let's just sit on that. Tens
have come down to four. We've seen a big
rally at the long end of the curve
develop coming out of the summer. Twos
have come down to around 350. We saw
that really start to accelerate after
that week July payrolls report back in
early August. Russ, what's your advice
to people now looking at the yield curve
the way it is?
you know, we continue to be mostly in
the belly of the curve. We've gotten a
little bit longer in our duration. You
know, generally we're pretty close to
benchmark. So, another way to put that,
we're not taking a ton of duration or
rate risk in the portfolio right now. We
like the carry, as I said a few moments
ago, part of what we've been doing in
fixed income beyond the treasury market
is thinking about what does that broader
portfolio look like? securitized some
emm having a portfolio where you can
clip that 6% coupon without taking a lot
of rate risk again something you could
not have done 5 years ago
>> Russ I appreciate your time thank you
sir Russ Cost co there of black rock
breaking things down still comfortable
being long equities equity futures this
morning just about positive by two or
3/10en of 1% let's get you an update on
stories worldwide with your Bloomberg
brief let's cross over to Yahara Yahara
>> hi John widespread internet issues are
being reported After Amazon Web
Services, the world's largest cloud
provider, suffered a massive outage.
Amazon is investigating the issue, which
is impacting dozens of platforms,
including Snapchat, Coinbase,
Perplexity, Robin Hood, and Verizon.
Shares are lower on the news. Meanwhile,
Israel says it has resumed a truce with
Hamas in Gaza after fighting over the
weekend. Each side accused the other of
breaching a deal brokered by President
Donald Trump. The IDF warned it would
respond firmly to any violation after
launching strikes against Hamas in Gaza
and suspending aid shipments. Some aid
supplies have now resumed, but the key
border crossing of Rafa remains shut.
And French bond yields are rising after
S&P global ratings downgraded its
sovereign credit score. It's an
unscheduled move that highlights the
nation's fiscal issues and places its
debt at risk of force selling by some
funds. S&P Global downgraded the country
from double A minus to A+ saying the
nation's budget uncertainty was
elevated. That's very brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. Not a good weekend for
the French, French bonds, French banks,
French museums,
>> French jewels, the French jewels
literally being ripped on the move as
well as in terms of the downgrade. Yeah,
it's pretty been rough few weeks for
Man.
>> Yeah, brutal. We'll bring you an update
on that jewelry theft a little bit later
in the program. Up next on the program,
President Trump's list of demands.
>> One of the things I want is China's
going to buy soybeans. I want China to
stop with the fentinol. Very, you know,
normal things. I don't want them to play
the rare earth game with us.
>> Up next, we'll catch up with Terry
Haynes of Pangia Policy live from New
York City this morning. Good morning.
[Music]
Equity
futures this morning positive by 0.26%
as we head into a key week for inflation
data. We're finally going to get our
hands on this at the end of the week.
CPI drops on Friday and this sets us up
for the following week. The following
week, a Fed decision next Wednesday.
Then after the close on the same day,
we'll have numbers from Microsoft, Meta,
and Alphabet. So really, earning season
begins. We get a flavor of things this
week. Netflix, Tesla, but earning season
really begins next Wednesday.
>> And then of course, we have to wait
weeks for when earning season really
begins in terms of the equity market and
where it's going in the direction of
travel with Nvidia. Obviously, we want
to know how these big tech players are
advancing and the fact that they're
spending billions of dollars in this
capex boom to build out AI and what do
they have to show for it.
>> Back end of October gets really
interesting. Lots of tech earnings, a
Fed decision, and a meeting between the
president of the United States and a
Chinese leader. And a surveillance this
morning, President Trump's list of
demands.
>> I have a very good relationship with
President Xi of China. We're having
disputes on things. They're paying us a
lot of money, tremendous amount of money
in tariffs, and they'd probably like to
have it be less and we'll work on that,
but they have to give us some things,
too. One of the things I want is China's
going to buy soybeans. I want China to
stop with the fentinel with very, you
know, normal things. I don't want them
to play the rare earth game with us.
>> So, here's the latest this morning.
President Donald Trump naming soybeans,
rare earths, and fentinil as top
priorities for the US ahead of fresh
trade talks later this month.
Bloombeck's Tyler Kendall joins us now
from Washington with more. Good morning,
Tyler.
>> Hey, John. Good morning. So, none of
these topics are necessarily surprising,
but they do give us an outline to look
out for as both sides re-engage ahead of
that November 10th broader deadline for
the tariff truce. Now, the White House
does maintain that that threat of an
additional 100% levy does remain on the
table, but President Trump himself said
in an interview over the weekend that
rates that high are not sustainable.
Now, interesting enough, we know that
this all came about because of uh that
new unveiling by Beijing when it came to
new export controls on critical and rare
earth minerals. But people familiar tell
us that behind the scenes, Beijing has
actually been working in recent days to
tamp down on at least some of the
concerns that included here in
Washington on the sidelines of the IMF
meeting where Chinese delegates told
their counterparts that this new
tightening in export controls wasn't
intended to disrupt any normal trade
flows. Of course though, this has been
an issue at the center of the
conversations and there's still a lot of
big divides, including the US's own
actions when it comes to some of those
uh semiconductor chips related to the
supply chain here. And that's why our
analysts at Bloomberg Economics have
long pointed to fentanyl, that topic as
being the one where we might see the
most immediate impact. Of course, 20% of
the tariffs on China currently are
linked to the issue. But John, it really
does seem like soybeans are becoming the
most pressing issue as US farmers across
the country are sounding the alarm that
they're running out of storage space for
unsold soybeans. A senior administration
official tells me that they are looking
at other export markets. They are
working overtime when it comes to
talking to these countries in Southeast
Asia or even Africa to take in US
soybeans if China doesn't come to the
negotiating table on the issue and fast.
Tyler Kendall. Tyler, thank you. And
Marie, these numbers, the US almost a
fifth of China's soybeans imports a year
ago and this export season not bought a
single crop. Zero. And this is why
there's been a little bit of tension as
well. You could see from the
agricultural secretary, Brooke Rollins,
that text message that she sent Scott
Bessett, the Treasury Secretary, when it
came to Argentina. You're announcing
this swap line, a financial help line to
Argentina. At the same time, they're
sending soybeans to China, which maybe
our own farmers could have been sending.
There's a lot of questions on is this
really America first?
>> Argentina, Brazil fill in the gap down
in South America. Terry Haynes of Pangia
policy writing this. China had best show
movement on rare earth and other hot
button issues or the US is capable of
broader direct movement against China's
economic interest. Terry joins us now
for more. Terry, welcome to the program,
sir. Now, my initial reaction to reading
that quote is, "What's left to tariff?"
So, what's left to do here?
Well, good morning all. I think what's
left to do here, frankly, is to
understand that the uh the the mar the
the economic issues of the moment uh
soybeans and uh and you know, fentanyl
and the rare earths are part of a
broader geopolitical struggle. And I
think that's the reason why we're not
going to see any serious movement on
this uh anytime soon. We'll probably get
some action on soybeans. We'll get
another nod on fentanel. uh they'll
continue rope a doping on rare earths
and in return what you get from from
Trump is not a calming effect by saying
tariffs are unsustainable because what
Trump and Bessant have always meant by
unsustainable is that they're
unsustainable for China. So it's not an
attempt to calm it's an attempt to tell
China look we're perfectly willing to
keep ramping this up if you want to but
if you don't then you need to back off
now. But Terry, hasn't it shown that it
is unsustainable what we're dealing with
right now, especially when it comes to
farmers? It's unsustainable for the
United States as well.
>> Um, it's not a it's not a pretty picture
by any means. And I don't I don't mean
to minimize the problems that American
farmers have at all. Uh, but this takes
place in the context of a much greater
geopolitical uh chess game and uh and
the the export markets for soybeans are
one small part of that. So, China is
holding on to rare earths. They're not
buying US soybeans. What do they want
out of the United States besides
lowering the tariff threshold?
>> Well, they'd like to keep talking and
they'd like the United States to go away
akin to 2019, 2020. Uh what the what the
Chinese very likely hope for is that
they get some sort of small deal with
with Trump that gets trumpeted as a big
deal. Uh and what ends up happening is
that uh the United States then goes away
on uh on bigger issues and uh I think
this time out uh Trump's not inclined to
do that. The reason I think that is
because that's very clearly what he's
signaling. I mean it's they they see the
rare earth issue as uh as a threat to
you know military plus western economic
uh uh power and influence and ability to
continue frankly. and uh they'll uh
they'll defend that and you know so this
this thing isn't going away anytime
soon.
>> It's not going away. What you're
describing is the contours of a maybe
small deal on three specific issues that
could be done between Holy Fang and
Scott Besson. Why do we need President
Trump meeting with Xi Jinping? Uh we
need that because both both Trump and
Xiinping want that meeting to be able to
show that uh jaw jaw is better than war
war and they're continuing to talk and
uh in this case the the any kind of
seeming rapro between these two leaders
uh you know lifts all boats whether it
be in China uh which wants respect and
wants to be seen as an equal or the
United States you know where Trump knows
he's going to get a pretty large market
bounce out of a continued rap rush
month.
>> Terry, this bout of escalation really
started with China a number of weeks
ago. They flex their superior rare earth
refining capacity. That's a move that
does not come without risk. And Terry, I
just wonder from your standpoint whether
you believe that was a strategic mistake
on the Chinese half.
>> Um I think it was clumsily handled at
the very least. So I think I'll mostly
agree with you on that. Uh but also I
found the timing interesting because
what you had in a situation in this
situation is in the broader geopolitical
context you got a Gaza brokered piece
which right now of course is uh you know
teetering a little bit but you got that
you got the US Argentina bailout which
from a geopolitical perspective is a
push back against China in in South
America and you've got Russia under a
lot more pressure not only because
they're not winning in Ukraine but but
because the price of oil and other
things imperil their ability. Uh that
together describes a uh Chinese and
client state proxy defeat. Uh so China
among other things is reminding
everybody that they're still here.
>> Um Terry, before we let you go on China,
today is day 20 of US government
shutdown. We're just mentioning it now
23 minutes into the program. When do you
think the government will actually open?
Um, I got uh I got early November after
the New York City elections. What I
think about this is is that this has now
morphed into a struggle uh for the broad
center of the American public. Who's
more reasonable? Uh there's a lot of
evidence out there that Democrats aren't
winning that uh that battle right now.
And what Republicans see an opportunity
to do now is kind of use the kind of no
kings amuse Bush uh plus the Mandani
election in New York City uh to continue
to paint Democrats as extremists. Uh so
I think this goes on for a while.
>> Terry, just quickly then you don't see
that as a coincidence of the calendar.
You actually think that's a connected
story. What's happening in New York City
and what happens in Washington?
>> Oh absolutely. Because what they'll end
up doing is and you know this gets uh
teased all over the place and has been
for a while. Trump mentioned it over the
weekend, I think, too. Um, is that, you
know, this is the face of the Democratic
party. That's what these people are up
to. And notice, by the way, and not
incidentally, that, you know, neither
Schumer nor Jeff nor anybody else in New
York wants to stand up to them. Uh, this
is this is your Democratic party, folks,
as compared to us uh who are leading on
uh already leading with the public on
economy and crime and a bunch of other
major issues.
>> Terry, appreciate it. Thank you, sir.
Terry Haynes there have pangia policy
down in Washington DC. Please you
brought up the shutdown. Haven't talked
about it. Completely off the radar of
the market at the moment. Three weeks
and counting and it looks like according
to Terry it could be another two.
>> Punch bowl this morning talks about the
cash crunch. Federal employees are
slated to miss their first full paycheck
this week. They are scheduled to get
paid October 24th. That's covers October
4th, October 13th pay periods.
Government will shut the entire time. So
you need to watch the four Democratic
senators in Virginia and Maryland. At
some point they're going to cave.
>> We're going to get some CPI data. Might
be a while before we get some payroll
reports. Coming up on the program, Amy
Gower of Morgan Stanley on what's next
for Gold's record run. Plus, Yahihara
has your morning movers with Boeing in
focus.
[Music]
For all the drama of last week, the S&P
500 higher by 1.7%, the biggest weekly
gain since early August. And the gains
continue this morning, up by a quarter
of 1% on the S&P. On the NASDAQ, up by
0.3 on the Russell. Some out performance
for smalls this morning, up by 0.7.
Let's turn to the bond market. Switch up
the board. Twos, 10, 30s. Two-year bond
yields down for a third week last week.
Likewise on 10ens. Yields down across
the board. Twos this morning high by
just a single basis point 3 46.98. tens
just north of 4% after dropping south of
4% through last week. Want to turn to
gold to bring you an update. Gold so far
this morning shaky on Friday, positive
today, up a tenth of 1%. Closing out the
week for a ninth consecutive weekly
gain, the longest weekly run since 2020.
If we make it week 10, it will be the
longest weekly stretch of gains going
back to 1980.
>> It's been absolutely unbelievable. And
you see some profit taking happened over
the weekend from Friday to this morning.
But still, gold is up even though
everyone's talking about, you know,
improved sentiment when it comes to
credit quality in the United States,
less concerns going into this big
meeting between Beijing and Washington.
And still, there is still that appetite
to get your hands on gold.
>> 4256. We'll get Morgan Stanley's view in
just a moment. 3 hours away from the
opening bell. Let's get you some single
names, some morning movers. Let's cross
over to Yahara. Hey, Yahara.
>> Hi, John. President Trump's latest
comments on US China trader helping to
lift rare earth stocks. We are seeing
critical metals up nearly 10% in the
pre-market while US Airware earth MP
materials also higher after they all
suffered some losses in Friday's
session. But today's gains of course
come after President Trump said he
doesn't want Beijing playing the rare
earths game with the US listing the
minerals among his top issues ahead of
trade talks this week. And we have a
potential deal incoming and that is
causing shares of hologic to rise 2.8%.
on our reporting that Blackstone and TPG
are in advance talks to buy the medical
device maker in a deal worth more than
17 billion dollars including debt. And
this is significant because if it goes
through, the deal would rank as one of
the biggest private equity takeovers
globally this year. And we are also
seeing a lift in Boeing shares up 1.6%
on our reporting that the FAA has
approved a boost in their 737 production
to 42 jets a month. The increase could
start as soon as November with plans to
eventually hit 47 jets a month with
investors seeing higher output as key
for Boeing's comeback and in its rivalry
of course against the Airbus. John
>> Yahara, thank you. Appreciate it. More
from Yahara a little bit later this
hour. On a radar this morning, President
Donald Trump laying out his top demands
for China ahead of trade talks later
this month. The president insisting
Beijing stop playing the rare earth
game, curve fentinel exports and resume
purchases of American soybeans.
Elsewhere, French bond yields rising
after S&P downgraded the country to
single a plus, citing fiscal wos. The
decision raising the risk of force
selling. France losing the country's
double A credit rating at two of the
three major credit firms in just over a
month. And finally, Japanese stocks
closing of fresh all-time highs as the
LDP signs a new coalition deal with the
Japan Innovation Party. The move putting
ADP leader Sai Takichi to become Japan's
next prime minister.
>> Really interesting story because she is
conservative on social issues, but
actually she wants to have more fiscal
firepower when it comes to how she would
like to govern as prime minister. Very
similar to a platform she'd like to
extend when it comes to economics. This
makes me think that this is going to set
her up to have a very good relationship
with the Trump administration because
Trump talks a lot about how it was
during AB's reign that he really had
this close relationship with Japan.
>> That's the politics on a market
perspective. I think we're trying to
work out how close the relationship will
be with the BOJ. Just a touch of yen
weakness coming back through dollar yen
this morning 150 77 and positive on that
currency pair by 0.1%. Let's turn back
to metals. Gold trading in a narrow
range after a sell off in precious
metals on Friday. It's coming off a
two-month surge that has brought prices
up over 60% so far in 2025. To discuss,
Amy Gower, lead metals and mining
commodity strategist Morgan Stanley
joins us now for more. Amy, welcome to
the program. What a year for you and a
team to track this story. Gold to the
year today is up by more than 60%. Can
we just reflect on Friday's price
action, a massive trading range? What
was the explanation for you and the
guys, you and the team, as to what was
behind those big moves going into the
weekend?
>> Yeah, look, I think it's it's been a
very very big move as you say, it's it's
been, you know, a couple of months
really of gold moving up to about $1,000
in that period since we had that more
doubbish pivot from Fed Chair Powell at
Jackson Hole. So, I think it's not
surprising that we have a bit of
volatility, especially when we're seeing
that across other asset classes as well.
And you know what we often see is if we
do see you know other other assets pull
back gold is often swept up alongside
that as well um just because it's often
used as a source of of liquidity we saw
silver platinum palladium as well or
down even more and I think this this
precious metals trade has been kind of
all driving it itself and so as those
pulled back we we had a bit of of
weakness as well in gold can we reflect
on the pillars of this trade and how it
started the more recent rally over the
last few years a lot of people have
pointed to the so-called diversific
ification trade sparked by the war in
Ukraine and the prospect of Europe
confiscating Russian assets triggering
this diversification of central bank
holdings of the dollar exposure taking
on more gold. Amy, do you think the
recent price action is more indicative
of reaching a more speculative phase of
this story?
>> Yeah. No, I think it's it's a good way
to think about it. So 2022 23, even much
of 2024 was was driven by um central
banks really upping their purchases of
gold. And we we still see this, but I
guess it's it's reached a more stable
level now. Um, and so the the big shift
this year has been the exchange traded
funds. Um, and what we do see is that
they are much more linked to what the
Fed is doing, what interest rates are
doing. So actually exchange traded funds
have been selling gold for the the
previous four years and really only
turns to net buyers this year and that
has really accelerated since we had that
that pivot um from Fed Chair Powell. And
then of course as you say that there is
as gold does better um investors start
to look at it more rethink you know how
much gold is in their portfolio as well.
So I think a lot of those discussions
are going on and as the price continues
to work I think people continue to to
look at it and and try and increase
their exposure.
>> Amy as a number of banks have 5k on gold
next year. We're in an environment where
risk on risk off everyone continues to
get crowded into this trade. Give us
some context. Where have we seen this
before in the past?
>> So, I think we we saw um I guess similar
moves in gold in in 2020 where we had a
a big run up in in price. Um and then
actually um that was I guess eventually
pulled back as other asset classes took
over and carried on going. I think that
the difference this time around is that
gold is is rallying alongside everything
else. So feels like um everything is is
doing well all all at once and and that
makes it maybe slightly different to to
previous rallies. Um and I think at the
moment probably the the most risk to
gold is you know if we did see other
asset classes also starting to pull back
because everything seems to have become
a bit more related. So you know I would
think if we did get a more meaningful
pullback in equity markets for example
gold would would not be immune to that
particularly as it's often used as as a
source of liquidity.
>> Gold seems to be lifting all boats.
Silver is also having um an absolute
moment as well. Also up on the year
double digits. Do you see that being
part of the momentum of the gold trade
or is that its own story?
>> Yes and no. So silver I guess sits
somewhere between gold and copper. So it
has an an industrial demand base. It's
particularly it's used in in solar
panels um which has had huge growth over
the last few years. Um we do care about
mining production I guess in silver as
well and and that is mainly as a
byproduct. So you don't tend to get much
reaction on the supply side to prices.
So we've had this this industrial
deficit for silver, but then also it's
benefiting from investors buying
exchange traded funds and silver which
are backed by physical metal. So you've
kind of had this perfect storm coming
together. Um and then more recently it
sort of had its own physical shortages
as well. So there is a lot of metal in
London. There is a lot of silver in the
vault, but a lot of that is now already
pledged for exchange traded funds. So
the the amount of sort of freely
available metal has has really shrunk.
Um and that's come alongside uh good
demand in India seasonally um demand you
a few months ago as we in New York um
thinking about whether there might be
potential US tariffs on silver. So
there's been lots of of pulls on that
metal while the physical availability
has been quite tight. So yes and no is
linked to the gold story but it has its
own drivers as Amy, we'd love to finish
up by talking about more broadly, you
mentioned the miners, more broadly about
the commodity story and how the miners
might respond to that. I believe you
also tracked oil back in the day and
both oil and basic resources had a bit
of a bust over the last decade or so
that I think injected some real
discipline into the operators both in
the oil patch and for the miners as
well. Amy, particularly the mining
companies, how disciplined are they this
time around not to react to the big
rally we've seen across the board? not
the um
>> yeah look I think we we aren't seeing
huge pickups in in capex I think what
we've seen is perhaps more um a
preference for buying uh supply growth
versus building it yourself and I think
there's there's a couple of challenges
there one is you know if you want to
start a new mine today um the the
process to get those mines approved has
become much much longer and so even if
if prices are good for now and and maybe
you know for a few more years by the
time that that metal comes to market um
you know we could be in a completely
different market environment. So I think
that's one challenge and then as you say
there's been you know challenges in the
past with debt levels and spending at
the wrong time and then supply all
coming on when we didn't need it. So I
think we are generally seeing um capex
discipline and perhaps companies trying
to grow their own growth by acquiring
assets or other companies rather than
developing internally and and that
probably will stay. Um I would say in
gold we are seeing more feasibility
studies being refreshed and updated. So
clearly people are taking a look,
companies are taking a look. Um but I
think it could be some time before we we
see the volumes in the market.
>> I mean there's a massive push
domestically here in the United States
as you're well aware of to boost
production of certain materials
particularly rare earths. There's also a
massive copper deposit in the United
States that Rio and BHP have wanted to
explore for a long long time. You
mentioned things like regulation
permitting. Is enough being done to
speed up the timeline for some of these
issues?
Uh look, I think we're certainly moving
in the the right direction and you know,
it's not just the US, other governments
around the world are looking at which
projects can they prioritize. Can they
make the path a bit smoother? Um and I
think look, we are always there is
always a process to to develop a mining
project. You need to think about um land
rights, water rights, you know, how
you're going to bring the material in,
bring the material out. Um so I think
look, there there should be it should be
a process that that takes some time. Um
but certainly to sort of try and
compress some of those timelines gives
companies a bit more certainty and
allows them to to deploy capex with
confidence. Um I think I think that's
the the key. So I think yeah moving in
the right direction. Um but probably
permitting time frames are are still
quite long.
>> Amy, thanks for making time for us.
Appreciate getting some time to lean on
your experience. Amy Gair of Morgan
Stanley who leads some of the coverage
of mining and metals.
>> And this is actually going to be a huge
conversation today in Washington. the
prime minister of Australia will be
making his way to the Oval Office. And
Kevin Rudd, the ambassador, was talking
about the fact that Australia equals the
periodic table, but knowing having the
having the rare earths and having
metals, but knowing how to actually mine
them is another thing. And they're
trying to offer themselves this help to
kind of bring these two countries closer
together because of the fight the United
States is having right now with China.
>> A huge focus for this White House,
particularly as you say, going into that
meeting. Let's give an update on stories
worldwide. Let's head over to Yahara
Anan to get your Bloomberg brief. Hey,
Yahara.
>> Hi, John. Amazon Web Services says most
of its operations are succeeding
normally after a widespread outage. The
disruption from the world's largest
cloud provider impacted a range of
services, including AI companies,
government agencies, and financial
platforms. AWS identified a problem with
a regional gateway on the US East Coast
that caused the issue. Shares are
higher, 210 of 1%. Meanwhile, Apple's
newest iPhone is off to a strong start.
Counterpoint Research saying the 17
version is out selling the 16 by 14%
over its first 10 days on the market in
both the US and China. Analysts
attribute the boost to the phone's
improved display, more storage, and the
upgraded A19 chip, plus a well-timed
upgrade cycle for users who got their
last phones during the pandemic.
And the Louve will remain closed through
Monday after thieves stole several
pieces of jewelry in a daring daytime
robbery. On Sunday, robbers broke into
the museum's Apollo Gallery and used
angle grinders to break into
highsecurity cases containing French
crown jewels from the Napoleonic era.
Eight of the nine items in the cases
remain unaccounted for and police are
still searching for four perpetrators.
That's brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. 9:30 in the morning, 4
minutes in and out.
>> This is what I find so shocking. How is
this possible? Especially you have
tourists there. The museum is open. How
do you do this in just a few minutes and
not get caught? I don't know. It's
unbelievable.
>> Thomas Crownesque. There's going to be a
movie on this one. Definitely. Up next
on the program, AI driving growth.
almost half the growth in the uh US
economy so far this year has actually
come from this AI related capex
recognize that it doesn't go on forever
and you know there are there are limits
to how strong you can see this uh
performance go on for in just a moment
we'll catch up with Ellis McI of Oxford
Economics live from New York City you're
watching Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
Kicking things off this Monday morning,
just about positive by 210 of 1% on the
S&P 500. Your equity market picture
looks like this. Positive on the NASDAQ,
too, up by 0.3 on the Russ caps up by
0.6. earnings through the week from
Netflix and Tesla. Then on to the big
ones next week. Microsoft, Meta,
Alphabet, all reporting next Wednesday,
the same day the Federal Reserve reports
its latest interest rate decision. And
event this morning, a focus on tech AI
driving growth. Almost half the growth
in the uh US economy so far this year
has actually come from this AI related
capex. So it's it's almost as large as
total US consumption spending. So this
is the first time we've really seen that
scale of capex driving GDP growth like
this. Recognize that it doesn't go on
forever and you know there are there are
limits to how strong you can see this uh
performance go on for and how long it
can last as well. So here's the latest
this morning. Investors looking for
signs of strength beyond AI with a busy
week of earnings still ahead. Inis McY
of Oxford Economics saying outside of AI
the world and the US are in an
investment recession but it's unlikely
to become a broader downturn in joins us
now for more in good morning and welcome
back to New York.
>> Morning John.
>> Can you break down the numbers for us?
So what is AI and basically what does
the rest of the world look like?
>> Yeah so I think first thing to mention
really is that a lot of people are
focusing a lot on the AI investment
numbers um and they're not necessarily
thinking about the imports associated
with them. Then the net impact on growth
is actually quite small just from the
investment portion. Outside of AI, of
course, investments been contracting for
a couple of quarters, but you know, we
don't need to get too worried about
that. Investment recessions are
relatively common. Go back through the
G7, for example. They're about twice as
common as as normal recessions. So, one
doesn't necessarily lead to the other. I
think the key point for growth really is
how these tech stocks are doing, the
wealth impact on the high-end consumer
and how that's actually driving growth,
not necessarily just the AI investment.
>> This goes to the bifocation of the US
economy right now. The low-inccome
cohort is really really struggling and
has been for a while, a number of years.
Is there any reason to believe that's
going to migrate up to upper income
cohorts as well?
>> I think that's the real uncertainty.
Remember that low-income households, the
B bottom 20% of the income distribution
are only about 9 10% of overall consumer
spending. So, it's manageable if it
stays there. Um, but they are driven by
very different things than than the top
end. So, there's not a not a direct move
from one to the other. Um we are of
course in a very regressive um tax
environment in terms of tariffs but also
in terms of the one big beautiful bill
that will see low-income consumers uh
have their income fall by you know two
three percentage points uh whereas at
the top end go up by two or three
percentage points. Um so I'm not sure
that there's a direct link between the
two. I think we got to watch the stock
market really to worry about that
contagion. How far does the stock market
go to explaining how we can have an
economy where employment levels have
dropped off to the extent they have and
retail sales have remained right up
there?
>> Well, I think that's a big part, but
remember with the labor market, we're
seeing two shocks and and and this is
the thing we've got to get a bit used to
in economics actually is we've had 20
years of demand side shocks and supply
side's been relatively benign. Nowadays
though, of course, we're seeing much
more adverse supply shocks and that's
what's happening in the labor market.
we've got negative um supply side shocks
alongside a cooling in demand and that's
how you can have this no fire no hire uh
labor market.
>> When you talk about this investment
recession and the fact that we're not
going to have a real recession, can the
US remain exceptional even with this
investment
depression almost?
>> Yeah, I think it can because ultimately,
you know, let's think about the three
big shocks in the world at the moment.
First you got deg globalization the
impact of tariffs that clearly is going
to impact the surplus countries Germany
Europe China much more than it is Europe
there's a strong correlation in our
forecast revisions over the last year
given trade balances um secondly you
know on the AI side clearly the US is
not only benefiting much more at the
moment in terms of the investment and
consumption picture but should also do
so in in long-term in productivity um
and then thirdly on the on the sort
policy dynamics. Um the US is not
constrained in its fiscal position.
Whereas you look around the world, there
are a lot of economies who are at the
moment. So if anything, there's more
upside, I think, to the um policy
stimulus in 2026 for the US.
>> Given this backdrop and the investment
we are seeing in AI, how important is it
going to be these tech earnings that are
upcoming?
>> I think it's really crucial actually. um
you know it's a it's a rally that you
know for some is built on these earnings
to if there's any pull sort of pullback
in the market really might well pull out
the the rug from underneath those
high-end consumers. I don't see that
happening um at the moment but that I
think is the key risk.
>> Do you think it's become more important
than the Fed decision and by important I
mean more important for the economy the
earnings we get from the mega tech
players next week versus what Chairman
Pal's got to say. Well, this is probably
my unpopular opinion, but I have to say
I'm not sure that um Fed rate cuts
really mean a huge amount for the
economy. Certainly not in the next six
months.
>> Well, you know, if you look at the
structure of debt in the economy, um
it's far longer now than it has been in
the past. We've got a situation where,
as in most rate cutting cycles, we're
seeing rates come down, but the long end
of the yield curve rise, so steepening
happening. So, financial conditions
aren't pulling back um or easing as much
as as many people might think just by
looking at at the Fed funds. Whereas
obviously equity stocks are having a
much bigger impact on overall financial
conditions in that first um phase of
pass through.
>> Interest rates are going to come down
again next week. Most people think
they're going to continue to come down.
Are you suggesting that's not going to
alleviate some of the issues in the
labor market?
>> Yeah, I think that you know
fundamentally Fed rate cuts don't have a
huge impact on on um employment
certainly not in the next six months.
And remember that a big part of what's
going on in the labor market is a supply
shock and central banks can't really
touch that.
>> What kind of risk is the Federal Reserve
embracing if they're going to be lulled
into an easing cycle by misdiagnosing
the labor market to the extent that
obviously based on what you've said you
think they are?
>> I wouldn't say that they're going to
make a huge policy mistake or anything
like that. Ultimately, we're talking
about moving at 25 basis points. Um, you
know, and and ultimately from a stance
that's pretty restrictive by all
measures to something that's a bit more
of a gray area. Who knows where neutral
is. Um, so it's not like we're going to
go in most forecasts anyway into a
period where we'll have really really
loose policy. Um, so I don't think it's
going to be a big mistake, but you know,
clearly it's something they can correct
pretty quickly on either side.
>> Not this side of May, the other side of
May. Once we get new leadership of the
Federal Reserve, who knows what the
future holds. How's that debate playing
out in Europe? What kind of
conversations are you guys having
looking across the pond to the US at the
moment?
>> I think there's a a lot being talked
about institutional quality of the US
and whether that plays some sort of role
in the obvious decline in the dollar
that we've seen so far this year. To be
honest, I think that's a little bit
overplayed. Um, you know, who knows who
we'll see as um the next Fed chair. uh
but if they move you know rates by let's
say 50 100 basis points um uh relative
to where they where the market has in
price now I'm not sure that's actually a
massive uh uh change to be honest with
you and frankly you know we've got a
very very data dependent Fed at the
moment um maybe a Fed that looks a
little bit more towards the forecast and
thinks where policy should go and what
impact it should have um would be a good
thing
>> especially given we don't have much data
at the moment and it's good to see you
in Miy there of Oxford economist
breaking down contribution coming from
AI investment and what we could see from
this Federal Reserve going into May when
we get that change at the top of the
institution
>> and overall what he's talking about is
that AI investment what does it mean for
the top cohort spenders because right
now they continue to spend and drive the
growth in this economy which is why I'm
also interested what firms like Proctor
and Gamble have to say this week they
were talking about a billion dollar
tariff hit last time they reported
earnings where are they seeing consumers
spend now and are are you seeing any of
those high-end consumers potentially
looking to maybe go out buy deals at
places like Walmart.
>> True. Just quickly, what's the latest on
the leadership race at the Fed? I have
to say, if you'd asked me a few months
ago, I thought they were going to push
through this through pretty quickly, but
it's taking a while.
>> So, I think the reason why there's less
urgency now than there was over the
summer is because the Fed is already
cutting interest rates. So, it's giving
the White House some breathing room to
take their time and decide what exactly
they want to do. Also, remember, J.
Powell has yet to make it clear publicly
and I don't think he's made it clear yet
to the president or the treasury
secretary that he is going to step aside
from the Fed. We know that he's leaving
the chairmanship, but will he give up
his governor seat?
>> He has cut once already this year. That
was last month and he's set to cut
interest rates again this year. That's
going to happen potentially next
Wednesday. I think most people believe
that's exactly what's going to happen
next Wednesday. Coming up on the
program, we'll catch up with Sarah Hunt
of Alpine Saxon Woods. We speak to Henry
Trees of Vader Partners, David George of
Bed, Tom Titurus of Tatigus from New
York City this morning. Good morning to
you all. The second hour of Bloomberg
surveillance up next.
[Music]
There is more inflation risk in the
system than markets are currently
pricing in.
>> It's getting a little bit bubbly again
in October. I think the risks to
inflation are not really skewed to the
upside.
>> Inflation is going to start becoming a
concern if financial conditions remain
as easy as they are and the Fed
continues to preemptively cut rates.
>> To me, the big risk is that the Fed does
too much too quickly.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning from our
audience worldwide. The second hour of
Bloomberg surveillance stats right now
and your scores look like this. Equity
futures on the S&P added some weight to
last week's rally. Yes, last week's
rally. Even with all the drama, a week
of gains up another tenth of 1% this
morning, up two on the NASDAQ in the
bond market. Twos, tens, and 30s. You
will get some CPI data later this week.
Twos at 346, 10's at 4% that inflation
data drops coming this Friday. Finally,
we have some data coming out of the US
government given the fact that we are
day 20 right now today in terms of a
government shutdown. But that's all
we're going to get. We actually don't
know when we're going to get the labor
market reports cuz we don't know when
the government's going to open even. So,
we have other data coming out in terms
of earnings from the tech big tech
players. We're going to get some of them
this week like Tesla, but then and Intel
and then we have others coming next week
that are going to be really important.
And then, of course, the trade story
starting to take a simmer now. The
president has outlined his demands and
the TRA Treasury Secretary is going to
sit down with his counterpart ahead of
this meeting and it does seem like both
sides are slowly backing away from the
hot heated rhetoric we saw over the past
two weeks.
>> Let's just stand the earnings. GM,
Netflix, Tesla. Typically, I'd ignore
Intel. I'll be very honest about that
and know I'm very focused on it. Does
someone from the White House join the
call this week? I mean, I'm joking, but
there's a massive focus now for the
White House and this administration.
>> Well, I I don't know. I'm not joking.
Maybe someone from the white from the
White House does join the call at least
minimum. So there's going to be someone
that's going to look at what Intel
reports, right? Because the United
States now has an equity stake. They
have, you know, their hands in the game
in the cookie jar of this company. They
want to see what they report. I'm more
going to be fascinated about how the
CEO, the CFO, the seauite talk about the
US government stake in the company. And
also since that US government stake, are
they starting to get more calls from
potential customers? I'm sure they are.
I'm surprised by how quiet China has
been about the administration's
involvement in Intel. And I've been
waiting for this moment for the Chinese
authorities because Intel gets a lot of
revenue from their country. Been waiting
to see what Chinese authorities have got
to say about increased state involvement
in some of these tech players and how
much access they'll continue to get to
the Chinese market.
>> I think though the problem Beijing would
have is, oh, you're just doing what
we've been doing for years. So, they
can't really poke fingers at the United
States because they just in some measure
took a page from their playbook. Um, but
it's going to come down when it comes to
things like Intel. This meeting is going
to come down. I know we're going to talk
about soybeans and fentinel, but really
the most potent weapon China has in the
United States is rare earth. And what
the United States potentially could give
to China is more access to advanced
technology.
>> And the tension around that has really
whips this market over the past week or
so. Equity futures on the S&P positive
here by 0.2%. Coming up this hour, we'll
catch up with Sarah Hunt of Alpine Saxs
and Wordssworth Wall Street looking to
turn the page on credit risk. Henry
Trees of Vader Partners as US China
trade friction eases and Toms of
Strategus as the flight to gold
continues. We begin this hour with
stocks in Kaya as investors look past
credit concerns. Sarah Hunt of Alpine
Saxon Woods seeing the wall of worry
becoming somewhat steeper. She writes
the following. Credit is usually the
culprit in stock market sell-offs. Add
to that concerns about equity market
valuations and we go a pop higher in
volatility and lower in yields and
equities. Sarah joins us now for more.
Sarah, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Have we got a credit problem or an
isolated fraud issue?
>> That is the big question and I think
that that is something that is going to
come under increasing scrutiny. You saw
what happened with the regional banks.
You saw some of the business development
companies have some issues with their
stock prices cuz people start to worry
about that whole private credit boom and
what is underneath the surface where you
can't see it and whether or not that's
going to be a problem. Right now it
looks to be somewhat isolated, but every
time there's another thing that comes
out, it becomes a bigger problem. And
that sort of goes to Jamie Diamond's
comment, right? So I think that is the
that is going to be the issue and how
much that continues for the next couple
of weeks, months, days, it really
depends on whether or not something
bigger happens. Did you find it odd that
the diamond comment became the headline
for last week at the same time earnings
knocked it out of the park on Wall
Street and stocks finished the week
higher?
>> Not really because it sort of goes to
that list of things that people are
concerned about and I think that people
have been talking about private credit
and talking about some of those illquid
areas of the market and whether or not
there are going to be issues in there
and you can't see what the valuations
are for a while. So, it's more that once
something comes out then it becomes a
bigger problem. So I think that part of
that was just the fact that something
did happen and everybody was a little
bit worried about that happening. So
it's not surprising that that got
latched on to.
>> It's hard to make the argument right now
looking across the banks that net charge
offs are spiraling and out of control,
non-performing loans are increasing. I
don't see much of that at all. Now it's
not to say that it can't happen and I
can see why people are worrying that we
go from zero to 60 pretty quickly. I
understand all that. But is there
anything else outside of the issues
we've discussed that support the need to
worry? I think the issue in credit is
not with the big money center banks
which reported first and reported really
good numbers. I think it's more down in
the regional banks and in some of those
private credit areas. And I think that
that's the concern. And to the extent
that that's not the biggest spending
cohort to your point earlier, then then
it it's not that it doesn't matter. It's
more that who's caught up in it and how
bad is it going to be? And if it's not
that bad, it's not going to matter. If
it's a few banks that have a problem
here or there, it's not an issue. But
this sort of reminds me of the issue
with treasuries last year when it was
like, "Oh my goodness, now all of a
sudden these banks that you wouldn't
have thought of had the gap because of
the marktomarket problem." So it really
depends on where this goes. If it stays
somewhat small and contained, I don't
think it's a big issue, but it's
definitely one of the things that people
are concerned about.
>> It's staying small and contained, at
least at the moment, is what it feels
like. Do you think all this spend and
focus on AI investment can kind of put
pest infiltration to the side? as long
as that continues and it doesn't look
like that's got a crack in it, right?
Because every time you see a crack in
the AI story, whether or not there was
something that went around, I think last
week about how many hits this happened
and whether or not that was smaller than
it was and what does that mean? And I
think that anytime you get a question
about that, people start to question the
premise of why valuations are so high.
On the other hand, we do have rates
coming down and that makes a difference
as well. Whether or not it makes a
difference to the economy as such, it
definitely makes a difference to
investors and to the stock market
because lower rates do in do make room
for those multiples.
>> Jonathan asked this question last hour.
Is it more important to hear from the
tech mega giants than it is from the
Federal Reserve?
It's both. But right now, if there's any
slippage in earnings from the tech guys,
I think you're going to see a a more
wobbly, more volatile market because
with the lack of data and with the
assumption that the Fed's going to cut
at the end of this month, I think that
right now that is not as much of an open
question. But if you see anything in the
earnings or if you see any concern in
the earnings on the tech side or a
slowdown meaningfully somewhere that
can't be explained by we don't have this
capacity to give people something then I
think people really start to worry about
what that looks like and that spend that
spend direction looks like.
>> Have you got a company you'd be more
focused on than others? Next Wednesday
the same day the Fed meets we'll have
Microsoft Meta Alphabet the rest will
follow. Is there one that stands out
more than others? I think it's the
compendia of those who are spending the
most, right? So, it's all of them. And
if anybody says something odd and
everybody else doesn't say it, then I
think it's okay. If you get a bunch of
different comments that are like, well,
we're pulling back a little bit here, or
the the the year-over-year spend is
going to be X instead of X plus 10. I
think it's really going to be a question
of what they say collectively because
collectively that huge spend in the top
of the, you know, basically data center
market is what's been driving a lot of
this stuff. So everybody kind of has to
be on the same page. I think
>> there's two very different approaches
between China and the US. Of course,
those two countries will become the
focus of attention over the next week
when the two leaders get together at the
end of this month. China is shooting for
efficiency. We saw that with Deep Seek
at the start of the year. America at the
moment based on what we're hearing from
these companies is just shooting for
massive capacity, investing tons and
tons of money. Is there approach that as
an investor you feel more comfortable
with? Well, I think that right now
you're not it's harder for the US to
jump in and do the efficiency thing.
They're going to have to because the the
reality on the ground is the power
that's needed for currently what is
extrapolating from the demand is way
bigger than we have. So there has to be
an efficiency argument ultimately and I
think that there will be. The question
is going to be who does that affect the
most? And I think at the moment right
now it's just a race to get all the all
the chips on the board. It's sort of
like the dark fiber in 2000. It's like
we just need to put fiber down. We just
need to put fiber down. And at some
point that has to work together. And I
think that there will be efficiency in
the United States because I think there
has to be and the innovation will get
there because you just don't have power
prices are already higher. It's already
an issue. It's only going to get worse.
And I think that that's something that
will end up being solved. How exactly
and who benefits the most? I'm not sure
yet.
>> Yeah. How exactly is it going to be
solved? Because obviously potentially
government regulation would have to come
into play. When you think about the
trade talks, that's I'm sure part of
your wall of worry. Were you were you
given some comfort over the weekend by
the president's comments?
>> I think it's really difficult. A comfort
just in the deescalation, right? That
the words themselves are not as
important as the tone. And if the tone
is deescalation on both sides, that's
probably better for markets. It was when
the tone started to get very hot on both
sides that markets got very wobbly. And
I think that that's one of the things
where we just can't know the outcome.
and what they say and what actually
happens on the ground are not
necessarily going to be the same thing
because it almost never is when people
are doing negotiations. So, we won't
know what the final terms are in any
near term. But the idea of less fighting
versus more fighting is better.
>> But when you look at a meeting like
that, are you concerned that it just
bleeds into 2026 if it doesn't go well?
Some of this hot rhetoric?
>> Well, all of the tariff stuff is
bleeding into 2026, right? like in April
of this year, we were all convinced that
something was going to happen and it was
very short term and now all of a sudden
that has been pushed out throughout the
entire year. So now, yes, it will bleed
into 2026 and I don't think that's
necessarily a concern as much as it's
reality on the ground. That piece of the
wall of worry is going to continue to
have to be climbed and not just with
China, but in general, China is
obviously one of the biggest issues.
>> Just quickly, what's your favorite
sector right now and why? Well, I think
if you look at some of the places like
defense, which has already run a lot,
but you've got some big thematic stuff
that's not just AI, right? So, Golden
Dome. So, some of the spending that's
going to come that you know is coming is
very helpful. So, there are areas in the
industrials and defense that are going
to play into that. And I think that this
is a very good time to be looking at
longerterm thematic investing because,
you know, that there are places where
they're going to continue to spend.
>> Least favorite.
>> Least favorite is tough. Consumer is
really hard right now because I think a
lot of the low-end consumer is having a
hard time. So consumer is mixed and even
high-end consumer is not perfect. So I
think that there's some issues there.
But it's interesting that the iPhone is
finally getting that upgrade cycle that
Dan Ives has been looking for. So I
think that there's some good I think
there's some good news in that in that
regard.
>> Dan Ives has been waiting for a while
for that. Let's put it that way. Sarah,
it's good to see you.
>> Good to see you.
>> Thank you. Sarah Hunt there of Alpine
Sax and Woods. We'll bring you more on
that Apple data later this hour. Let's
get you an update on stories worldwide
with your Bloomberg brief. Let's cross
over to Yahra. Hey Yahra.
>> Hi John. Amazon Web Services says most
of its operations are succeeding
normally after a widespread outage. The
disruption from the world's largest
cloud provider impacted a range of
services including AI companies,
government agencies, and financial
platforms. AWS identified a problem with
a regional gateway on the US East Coast
that caused the issue. Meanwhile, a
cargo aircraft skidded off the runway
into the sea at Hong Kong airport,
killing two ground crew in a patrol car.
The plane's four crew members were
rescued and taken to the hospital. The
airport authorities said weather and
runway conditions were suitable for
flight operations at the time of the
accident. The cause of the crash is
under investigation and the plane's
black boxes have not yet been recovered.
And French luxury giant Caring has
agreed to sell its beauty division to
L'Oreal in a $4.7 billion deal. The two
companies will also work together to
create, develop, and distribute
fragrance and beauty products for
Caring's topline luxury brands. L'Oreal
is the world's biggest dedicated con
cosmetics and beauty group. That's your
Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yahara, thank you. Appreciate it. More
from Yhara in about 15 minutes time. Up
next on the program coming to the
negotiating table.
>> One of the things I want is China's
going to buy soybeans. I want China to
stop with the fentinel with very, you
know, normal things. I don't want them
to play the rare earth game with us.
>> Incredibly reasonable. Ask from the
president. How achievable is it in a
meeting he'll have with the Chinese
leader later this month. Henry Trees of
Vader Partners joins us next live from
New York City this morning. Good
morning.
[Music]
easing into a brand new trading week.
Equity futures just inching higher by
210 of 1% on the S&P 500. on the NASDAQ
up by a third under surveillance this
morning. Coming to the negotiating
table,
>> I have a very good relationship with
President Xi of China. We're having
disputes on things. They're paying us a
lot of money, tremendous amount of money
in tariffs, and they'd probably like to
have it be less and we'll work on that,
but they have to give us some things,
too. One of the things I want is China's
going to buy soybeans. I want China to
stop with the fentinol with very, you
know, normal things. cuz I don't want
them to play the rare earth game with
us.
>> So, here's the latest this morning. The
Treasury Secretary Scott Besson
confirming trade talks between the US
and China will take place in Malaysia
later this week. The move bringing both
countries together ahead of the November
10th trade truce deadline. Bloomberg's
Tyler Kendall has the latest. Good
morning, Tyler.
>> Hey, John. Good morning. So, this is
certainly giving us an outline on what
to look out for ahead of those planned
talks later this week in Malaysia. And
then of course, President Trump's
expected face-to-face sitdown with
Chinese President Xi Jinping on the
sidelines of the Apex summit later this
month. Now, the White House maintains
that threat of a 100% additional levy
remains on the table. But President
Trump himself over the weekend had said
that rates that high are not
sustainable. It is considered to be a
softening of tone as we actually got
some indications that China is also
working to tamp down some concerns.
People familiar tell us that this past
week on the sidelines of the IMF meeting
here in Washington, the Chinese
delegation told counterparts that its
recently unveiled curbs on critical and
rare earth minerals are not expected to
disrupt normal trade flows. Now critical
and rare earths have really been at the
center of the talks and they will
continue to be but we're really starting
to see the pressure ramp up around
another area and that is of course
around soybeans as US farmers across the
country are now sounding the alarm that
they are running out of storage space to
keep their unsold soybeans as China has
not made a single purchase when it comes
to US supplies. Just for some quick
context, China accounted for more than
12.6 billion dollar worth of US soybean
exports last year alone. Now, John, a
senior administration official tells me
that the Trump administration is working
to find other export markets and also
other uses for US soybeans. But I'll
also throw one more dynamic on your
radar that we should uh keep in mind
here, which is that this official
confirms that an expected aid package,
an economic assistant package for
farmers in the wake of this trade war is
currently on hold because of the
government shutdown that is only going
to add fuel to this fire going forward.
>> Tyler Kendall with the latest down in
Washington. Tyler, thank To build on
that story, Henrietta Trace of Vader
Partners joins us now for more.
Henrietta, welcome to the program.
Pretty reasonable, obvious intuitive ask
from the president of the United States.
Buy our soybeans, stamp out fentinel
production, ease the flow of rare earth
to the world, not just the United
States. Henry, what does China want in
return?
Well, China's in a pretty strong
position here because, as Tyler was just
laying out, the president has two
choices. He can either negotiate a way
to bring tariffs down and give China
what they want and get a deal for China
to buy our soybeans or he can negotiate
with congressional Democrats and he's
choosing to go with President Xi here on
this one. So the primary endeavor has to
be to find a way to get soybean
purchases made from China again and then
we'll see if they actually deliver. They
famously did not deliver in the phase
one deal reached in Trump's first term.
But the choice here, I think, is really
telling that the president would rather
engage with President Xi of China and
try to get a purchase agreement sometime
in the next couple of weeks rather than
negotiate with Democrats. So I think
there's
>> no that's not entirely fair, is it?
We're waiting on a This is a clean
continuing resolution, which you know
when I remember during the Biden days,
they would come on television and say
it's the Republicans that are holding
the government hostage. It's a clean
continuing resolution. We have a number
of Democrats, three of them, that
continue to vote for it. Um, isn't it
also on the Democrats to at some point
open up the US government? We're going
to have another week where federal
workers don't get paid.
>> Sure. And so they've tried 11 times to
vote for that very same bill and nothing
is moved. So the alternative is try to
negotiate with President Xi. And so I
think that's what the president of the
United States is preferring to do
instead of offering different terms to
Democrats.
>> John Thoon and Speaker Johnson. Is isn't
it their job to be negotiated with the
Democrats? less so the executive branch.
>> Yeah, absolutely. Especially Senator
Thoon, he's the only one who actually
needs to negotiate with the Democrats
here and get some sort of additional
vote to shake loose. My time on Capitol
Hill throughout last week showed very
clearly that the Republicans in Congress
are taking their direction from
President Trump and they're awaiting any
kind of indication from him that he
wants to throw out new ideas. And that's
obviously not coming. I don't expect it
to come at all this week. They'll have a
Republican gathering at the White House
on Tuesday and then he'll leave town for
Asia. So, the government's going to stay
shut down. I'm not expecting any
breakthrough here. And as I mentioned, I
think he'd prefer to negotiate some sort
of off-ramp for soybean farmers with
President Xi then change the terms of
the current deal in the US.
>> As I mentioned, federal employees are
slated to miss their first full
paycheck. There's there's a great
outline and some of these pressure
points this morning from Punch Bowl
News. Do you think with federal workers
missing paychecks yet again that you can
have maybe see the senators from
Virginia and Maryland vote for the clean
continuing resolution?
That's the Republicans hope. Their
thought is that you can maybe peel off
three, four, five, six more Democrats to
get the final 60 that you need. The
Democratic strategists that we've spoke
with throughout the week last week as
well are saying you're not going to get
this bill passed with just 60 votes.
You're not going to be able to just peel
off Virginia and Maryland. you're going
to need to get, you know, 70 75 members.
And I think what's interesting here is
that there are a number of Democratic
farm state senators who could be
compelled to vote for a farm aid package
such as New Jersey, which you don't
often think of as the a farming state,
but it absolutely is. So, there's a way
out here that I think ties some sort of
negotiation over ACA subsidies with the
farmers bailout package because they
need it and they're obviously not
getting it while the government's shut
down. They've run out of ways to pay for
a whole host of these things, including
federal employees. You're obviously
tracking the polls as well. Who's
winning in the court of public opinion?
>> Man, you know what's funny? I don't
think that the public particularly cares
about the shutdown and that's why you're
not seeing the president unduly focus on
it. Um the Democrats think they're
winning. Republicans think they're
winning and about nine points of
independents thinks that Democrats are
winning. But in general, it's basically
a third, a third, a third, as some
Republican strategists told me last week
as well. So, as long as there's not a
tremendous amount of pressure, the TSA
is not, you know, quitting on mass or
just not coming up to work, that will
eventually start to happen presumably.
But for now, it's not a priority.
>> That's one of the more traditional
pressure points. Henreda, right now, I'm
with you. Wall Street doesn't care
either, by the way. A lot of guests come
on the program, we don't even talk about
it. When do we get to that point? When
do we reach the limit of this? And where
do you see that on the calendar?
>> I I think the calendar is the right way
to focus on it. you got to get through
this meeting with President Xi, see if
Trump's able to shake out some sort of
deal on soybeans and if that fails, then
you move to Congress again and it's
going to be around that first week of
November. So, I'm expecting us to be
shut down through Halloween sometime
between November 1st and November 7th is
an ideal sticking point when things
really starts to get uh painful for
everybody involved.
>> Henry, we saw some funds being moved
around the Pentagon to make sure active
duty servicemen and women were able to
get paid. Can that happen again on their
next pay period? We don't know how long
it can last. There's about$8 billion
dollars in R&D funding that's already
already legally subject to um oversight
and law restrictions. I mean, we
famously fought a war 250 years ago to
prevent the power of the purse being
anywhere other than with Congress. So,
there is a serious um amount of concern,
especially from the appropriators on
where this money is coming from. It's
going to run out, I suspect, by the end
of this month. Um they're getting very
inventive. They are stretching the law
to the extent that they're able, but
there's a lot of things that we need
money for. Federal troop pay, wick,
SNAP, and obviously farmers.
>> So, it sounds like this is all going to
come to the head the end of the month
early in November. If it doesn't, and
the government continues to chug along
while being shut, what do you think the
ultimate pressure point is? Is it 2019
and FAA saying that a number of planes
were going to be delayed in some key
airports around the United States? Yeah,
I think that's a perfect um lever to be
focused on. Uh I think the military pay
issue is going to start to become a
problem. Um this is a comprehensive
shutdown, so there's no agencies open
right now. Um so the data that the
street is waiting for will also stop
coming. It all starts to build and
pressure on itself. I don't think
there's any one silver bullet here
that's going to neatly resolve this. I
think a combination of a farmer's
bailout, funding for the troops, missing
the November 1st date when everybody's,
you know, ACA subsidies get hyped when
they go on the exchange. That combo is
really what's going to start to pressure
it. But there, as you pointed out
earlier, the Republicans really need
President Trump to engage in the fight
and right now he sees no reason to.
>> Another guest suggesting we've got to
wait until November. Henrietta Trace
Aveda Partners. Henreda, thank you. That
was Henred Trace calling for a shutdown
that reopens in November. Terry Haynes
of Pangia in the last hour saying
exactly the same thing. So we've gone
without the September payrolls report
and based on this might have to wait for
the October one as well.
>> Right. And you wonder if the data is
going to be reliable given the fact that
it's going to take a long time to
collect some of this data because not
everyone was deemed essential like we
were that they were able to come back
for the CPI report. So, at some point,
when are we gonna get a really clean
read? I think that's going to be in a
few months time. It has to be what, 30,
60 days after the government reopens. A
really clean read on what's been going
on in the labor market. At the same
time, the Fed's still going to cut
interest rates.
>> It's going to take a while. Terry's
point was rather different, though.
Terry thinks that the Republicans want
to leave the spotlight on the Democrats
for the New York City Mel election. Just
the idea that the beating heart of
capitalism, American capitalism, could
have a socialist mayor in New York and
that's going to be the reality according
to the polls that we've seen.
>> Absolutely. He is leading in the polls.
I think the debate also showed that this
is someone that is splitting the others
are basically splitting the vote between
SWA and Cuomo and it's Mandamis to lose.
>> Up next on the program, we'll catch up
with David George of Bed with an upgrade
for regional bank science. That
conversation up next.
[Music]
Lots of negative headlines about credit.
Never good. Cockroaches never good. Your
equity market was high by 1.7% on the
S&P last week. Small caps were up by
2.4. The equity rally continues again
this morning up 0.3. On the NASDAQ 100,
up by 0.4. on the Russell smalls up
by.7%
this morning in the bond market twos 10
30s twos around 350 kind of anchored
around those levels at the moment let's
call it 347 upper single basis part of
the session through last week lower
likewise on 10 the data of the week CPI
coming up on Friday going into the
Federal Reserve decision the following
Wednesday so next Wednesday let's finish
on gold if we can what a rally we've
seen for gold over the last few weeks
the last two months nine consecutive
neative weeks of gains for the precious
metal. And if we make it week 10, if we
make it week 10, we're looking at the
longest weekly winner streak going back
to 1980.
>> It's absolutely unbelievable what's
going on with gold, especially since not
no one in the market is saying this is
the top. They're saying actually it's
going to be 5K next year. And what's so
surprising about this trade is risk on,
gold goes up. Risk off, gold goes up.
It's become this store of value for a
number of different issues happening
around the world at the same time. Fed
cutting interest rates, concerns about
global fiscal issues in countries like
Japan and in Europe, and then as well as
this slow turn story we've seen since
Russia's invasion of Ukraine of more
central banks wanting to get their hands
on the precious metal.
>> Certainly reached a more speculative
phase, that's for sure. Gold this
morning, 4263, following a really
volatile session on Friday into the
weekend. Into the session this morning,
two hours away on the equity side of
things. Let's get you some morning
movers with some single names. Here's
Yahihara. Hey yra.
>> Hi John. We start over in France with
PMBB Parabos shares plunging 8% to a
six-month low after losing a US court
case over allegations that helped
finance the Sudan government amid a
genocide. A jury awarded $20 million to
three plaintiffs, but analysts are
warning that that it could face a much
bigger settlement potentially in the
billions of dollars. BMP says it plans
to appeal. Meanwhile, President Trump's
latest comments on US China trade are
helping lift the rare earth sector with
critical metals up 8% while US air rare
earths and MP materials are also surging
after they suffered some losses on
Friday. But today's gains come, of
course, after President Trump said he
doesn't want Beijing playing the rare
earth game with the US and listing the
minerals among his top issues ahead of
trade talks this week. And we end on
Weight Watchers. This is a company that
has been making strides after emerging
from bankruptcy back in July. Shares are
up nearly 5% after it announced a
partnership with Amazon Pharmacy to
deliver weight loss medications,
including injectable GLP1 treatments
directly to its members as demand for
those drugs continues to sore. John
>> Yhara, thank you. That stock up by close
to 5% in early trading. On a radar this
morning, President Trump listing rare
earths, fentinel, soybeans as his top
issues with China. The US is set to hold
talks with Beijing later this week in
Malaysia as the trade truce nears its
end on November 10th. Elsewhere,
positive news for Apple's upgrade cycle.
According to Counterpoint Research, the
iPhone 17 is out selling the 16 by 14%.
The firm comparing the two devices over
their first 10 days on sale in both the
US and China. And finally, an update for
you. Amazon Web Services saying its
cloud service is recovering after a
major disruption overnight. the issue
affecting a range of customers,
including government agencies, AI
companies, financial platforms, and
other sites such as Coinbase and Robin
Hood.
>> So, it sounds like things are proceeding
as normal. Now, this morning, it's not
even 9:00 a.m., so I think a lot of
people were excited. I was getting some
viewer notes that you called it a snow
day for adults. Well, get out of bed if
you haven't gotten out of bed already.
You can't just blame it on that now.
It's 7:30 in the morning and basically
Amazon is like, "We figured this out."
>> I mean, this is what you'd want to shut
down, right? Zoom without a doubt. Slack
without a doubt. Cut it off. Take the
day off.
>> Or Zoom shut down. CEO calls. Get to
work. Get back to your desk.
>> Inerson meetings. Is that a conspiracy
this morning?
>> Take an Uber. Take a taxi.
Bike.
>> Let's turn back to Wall Street and not
Jamie Diamond. But here's more recent
comments. Credit fears easing after loan
blowups for regional banks such as Zions
and Western Alliance. David George
upgrading Zions to outperform calling
the pullback quote excessive. David
published that note going into Friday's
session. He joins us now. David, welcome
to the program, sir. It's good to see
you. Let's just start with how
disciplined this company has been, Zans,
exclusively with loan growth over the
last few years. Can you just frame
things for us, David, before we get into
it?
>> Sure, of course. Good morning, John.
Good to see you. So, Zans's uh has grown
and this is, I think, fairly uh
indicative of the banking industry
broadly. Loans since co have really only
grown in the two to 3% area. And if you
think about going into the GFC as market
participants are always kind of trying
to fight the last war, a number of banks
were growing construction loans in the
15% plus area. So, as we think about
credit broadly, uh, John, there's just
not any bubbles that we can really see
on bank balance sheets. We're obviously
vigilant and keeping an eye on things,
but again, like like we said in our
Friday upgrade as Zions, for the bank to
lose a billion in market cap over a $50
million fraud loss, we think was more
than excessive and and provides an
opportunity to buy the name here.
>> Clearly, David, people are still jittery
after the events of a few years ago. a
few years ago around the regional banks
it was about mismanaging interest rate
risk and I guess there's a fear in
general that people have mismanaged
credit risk somewhere and David I
understand where that's coming from we
had a period of very easy monetary
policy very easy fiscal policy and
people are making the case as they often
do that the worst of loans are made in
the best of times David you're not
ignorant of that fact I know that I've
known you for a long long time if there
are pockets of weakness somewhere where
would you be looking and what would you
be avoiding
>> yeah I I think that really to answer
your lesson, John. I think it's going to
be broad-based um your traditional
consumer and and corporate loan. So,
it's going to manifest itself the next
downturn or the next normalization, I
would call it would be in credit cards
and home equity and mortgage. And then
on the commercial side, it would just be
in your traditional CNI consu commercial
and industrial loans. And and it's not
going to be, I think, in CRA. I think
those those problems have been largely
identified and reserved for and we're
kind of working through those problems
now. So I think it's going to be just
something that's broad-based and and we
are of the view that credit cannot get
any better and that and that it will
normalize. But to suggest that we're on
the precipice of a disaster um on bank
balance sheets. We just we just think
that that is misplaced.
>> Let's go with what we know so far. So
first brands the exposure to fraud that
we heard from Zans and Western Alliance.
Is there a common thread there David
already across those things? Is that
sample that data pool still too small?
>> Uh I I don't think we should minimize
that obviously uh John and and fraud is
something that as you know as you both
know it it's the kind of thing that
manifests itself when we get late into
an economic cycle and as you said
earlier we've had have we have had a lot
of tightening of monetary policy and
that tends to operate with a lag. So,
it's very reasonable to think that we
will see some credit issues and these
frauds um certainly are not to be
ignored. But again, I think it's
important everything needs to be in
context and contextual in nature. And
it's all a function of what market cap
has been taken out of these stocks
relative to what the actual financial
and ultimate loss exposure is going to
be. John mentionedricolor. The Treasury
Department in 2019 and the Wall Street
Journal did an opinion piece about this
last week um identified it and
designated this company as a community
development financial institution. So it
was eligible for special grants. Do you
think there was an oversight issue with
Tricolor? Then potentially there's going
to be oversight issues with other
companies like that.
>> Yeah, I'm not sure, Amory. I I don't
think that that's something that that
would be something that would be uh that
I would be particularly concerned about.
I think in this case, this was a
situation where it was just flatout
fraud. I think collateral in this case
was double pledged or triple pledged and
uh I think it was just a fraud situation
more than anything rather than anything
deeper than that as it relates to CR
loan mandates or anything like that.
what we saw last week with Zion. Do you
think all of that was exacerbated by
Jaime Diamond's comments for everyone to
be lurking and careful about pests
potentially in the credit space?
>> It could be. Jaime certainly has a way
of making headlines every time he speaks
and and for good reason. Obviously, he's
a great CEO. He's done a phenomenal job
over the course of his career. Um, but
it's important to note that there have
been a lot of comments over the last
1015 years about 7% Treasury rates and
hurricanes and so forth. So again, um
it's important to have everything in
context and to just kind of calmly think
about these numbers and then get and
then just kind of frame those from a
riskreward standpoint as it relates to
the stock. So we're trying to help our
clients make money in stocks and when
there's an opportunity either on the
short side or the long side, we we want
to try and be in front of it and that's
what we're doing here.
>> Well, I give you credit for upgrading
the stock going into Friday, David, when
everyone else was freaking out. That
stock rallied on Friday and it's up
again this morning. David Amory
mentioned JP Morgan's Jamie Diamond. I'm
going through your coverage list of the
20 companies on the Bloomberg. You cover
11 buys, eight holds. You know where I'm
going. One sell underperform JP Morgan.
David, talk to us about that. What's
underpinning that call?
>> Yeah, it it's it's really uh important
uh John as we think about covering these
stocks and it is to to differentiate
between stocks and companies. And to be
clear, JP Morgan is is probably the best
company we cover if you just think about
its product breath and consistent
performance um really through throughout
the last 25 years that we've covered the
stock and we've been constructive on it
most of our career. But from from our
perspective, when JP Morgan gets to
three times tangible book, it it it's
simply unattractive to us on a
riskreward basis. We we think that
there's much more value uh in a stock
like Zans or Fifth Third or First
Horizon or Huntington or PNC where you
can buy those stocks at eight times
earnings rather than JP Morgan at 15
times earnings. So I think it's a
question of whose earnings are worth
more and from our perspective JP Morgan
and for good reason. It's great company
uh but it's just too expensive and is is
relatively overowned in our opinion.
John
>> David you mentioned Fifth Third a call
that you had months and months ago.
fifth third and the prospect of them
turning up getting together with co
America for many in this space and we've
heard it for a long long time this is
the start of more to come is that how
you see it and who do you think's next
>> you know we do um clearly I think we're
at 400 banks or still still too many
banks and I think the the regulatory
framework has gotten much more conducive
uh for bank M&A so in the in the case of
Fifth Third America that's a six-month
close which is really remarkable if you
think about it If this deal was
announced during the prior
administration, it would be at least a
12-month, if not longer, closing
process. So, we do think there's more
deals to come on our list. We think
First Horizon is the most likely sale uh
candidate. We think that there's a
number of potential buyers that would be
interested in First Horizon, and it's a
$25 to $26 uh private market value from
our perspective. And Comri, as you
mentioned, uh was one of our top takeout
picks and and we're very constructive on
that Fifth Third Com merger. That Fifth
Third has got excellent retail banking
acumen and and we think that's going to
be very complimentary to commeric as
those companies come together in the
first quarter of 2026.
>> David, appreciate your time as always,
buddy. Thoughtful note going into the
weekend. Thanks for sharing it with us.
David George there of bad and what's
happening with the regionals and why so
much more constructive on certain names
like Zions after the selloffs. the
difference between companies and stocks.
Can have a good company doesn't mean
you've got a good stock based on how
it's priced. And that's how he thinks
about JP Morgan at the moment.
>> Right. When JP Morgan, I'm sorry, when
he said the 7% though had flashbacks
when the Fed was hiking interest rates,
how different we are in a place right
now than 2023. And JP Diamond made those
comments on Bloomberg TV, how to stomp
out inflation, they're going to have to
keep hiking. We never saw 7% interest
rates. He's a risk manager and I think
he likes to anchor people's minds to the
extreme and then try and get everyone to
manage people thinking about the wide
range of risks and ultimately that's why
you get these flashy headlines. I find
it very distracting sometimes and
certainly the 7% story was somewhat
distracting.
>> Imagine how distracting it is for him to
go to bed when he's concerned about all
these things. Hurricane 7% you know
credit uh cockroaches in the market
>> in markets there is always something to
worry about. Equity futures on the S&P
500 firmer by a few ten of 1% with an
update on stories elsewhere this morning
with your Bloomberg brief. Here's
Yahihara. Hey Yahara.
>> Hi John. President Donald Trump says the
US could purchase Argentinian beef in an
attempt to lower prices for American
consumers. US beef prices have been high
because of droughts and reduced imports
from Mexico. Trump has been working to
help Argentina bolster its currency with
a $20 billion credit swap line and
additional financing ahead of midterm
elections for his ally, President Javier
Mille.
Meanwhile, President Trump says the US
will halt all aid to Colombia and impose
fresh tariffs on the country. Trump
accused Colombian President's Gustavo
Pro of being an illegal drug leader,
claiming drug trafficking has become the
country's biggest business with
leadership doing nothing to stop it. Pro
responded by posting that Trump is being
deceived by his adviserss.
And the federal government shutdown
continues, nearing its fourth week. The
Senate is set to reconvene and vote
later today. Republicans are pushing a
continuing resolution to reopen the
government at current funding levels.
Democrats want a deal to extend healthc
care subsidies due to expire at the end
of the year. Dr. Bloomberg Reef John
>> Johana, thank you. Appreciate it. Up
next on the program going for gold.
>> In a world of positive real yields,
you're not supposed to love gold. So,
there's something else at play here.
What I worry about is people speculating
on it now that you've had a pretty big
move.
>> Had a major move. Up next, Tom Turus of
Strategus live from New York City.
You're watching Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
take a sneak peek of this week. And this
week is really about setting things up
for next week. So this week we get talks
between China and the US, but that's
about setting things up going into the
end of this month when we have talks
between the US and Chinese leader. Take
a look at the earnings from GM, Netflix,
and Tesla. Intel, that's an appetizer
for next week when we get Microsoft,
Meta, and Alphabet and CPI on Friday.
That sets up an awkward Federal Reserve
meeting the following Wednesday. Next
week when the Fed gets together, we
could have inflation with a
three-handle, no employment report, and
they still reduce interest rates. And
that's widely what's expected into next
week into this week. Here's the price
action. Equity futures on the S&P 500
firmer by a quarter of 1% after a really
solid weekly gain. I've mentioned a few
times the S&P 500 was higher by 1.7%.
That weekly gain, the biggest since
early August, up again this morning on
the NASDAQ by 0.3% on the small caps,
the Russell up by 0.7. Turn to the bond
market. 2-year and 10-year bond yields
down across the board through last week.
This morning, just a little bit higher
on twos, 34677 on 10s around 4%. So,
money starting to drift back into
treasuries. Remember all the the freak
out that people had early August, the
Fed would cut, maybe they go too early,
the long game would sell off. That
hasn't how things have hasn't been how
things have developed. Yields have
rolled over again as we exited the
summer through September and into
October. Two-year yields at 346. Very
close to the lows for the year. That's
the story in stocks and bonds. Let's
talk about precious metals and the
Savannah this morning going for gold. In
a world of positive real yields, you're
not supposed to love gold. So, there's
something else at play here. All this
central bank diversification that's
really been happening since 2022.
There's a lot of geopolitical
uncertainty. I think gold makes sense in
a portfolio as a hedge against some of
these risks. What I worry about is
people speculating on it now that you've
had a pretty big move. We've had a major
move. Here's the latest this morning.
Gold bouncing off a sell off in precious
metals on Friday. Ongoing economic
uncertainty keeping the commodity close
to all-time highs. Tom Satsurus of
Strategus writing, "We suspect the gold
is telling markets that the US yield
curve needs to steepen in order for tens
to maintain their status as the primary
safe haven." Tom joins us now for more.
Tom, welcome to the program. Understand
the theory, but based on the price
action, does it back it up?
>> Uh uh yes, absolutely. I think the price
action is telling us that there are
overflows into safe havens and those
overflows are going into gold rather
than treasuries. You know, we've we've
gone through a period, we'll call it 15
years, where anytime there was a bump in
the night anywhere around the globe,
whether it started in the US or it
started in France or anywhere else, the
flows into 10-year treasuries were just
astronomical. And that's just not
happening this time. Yes, you're getting
some safe haven flows as we're seeing
stories about bad loans and worries
about systemic credit risk. And so,
10ear yields are rallying, but they're
not rallying as much as you would see in
previous cycles. And so gold is getting
the overflow of that safe haven flow and
and that's the really the big reason why
you've continued to see this momentum
trade in gold in my opinion. Obviously
there's folks following into that. But
it's the overflows from lack of appeal
from the traditional safe haven that I
believe is really the big driver in gold
right now. Tom, if you think of how deep
these pools are, the gold pool just
isn't deep enough to be the alternative
to treasuries. I've heard that. have
heard that directly from Goldman too
when they've come on the program which
is why you've seen this massive
exponential move in gold. Can it really
replace treasuries Tom given the depth
of the pool and available liquidity in
the treasury market compared to say
gold? Oh. Oh absolutely not. It can't.
And so eventually if the these fears of
of credit contagion, if they really were
to spread and we start to see more signs
of pests in the attic and stuff like
that, then you're going to see 10-year
Treasury yields not just dropping below
4%. But rallying down to close to where
twos are right now. And that's not
happening yet. But there's just the gold
market's not big enough. The precious
metal market's not big enough. The
entire sovereign G10 market's not big
enough. Treasuries are going to have to
be the final outlet if there is that
type of risk. Tom, you're looking a lot
about what gold is doing in terms of the
treasury market. Are you also concerned
about ddollarization and countries
trying to get their hands on gold
because they don't want to touch US
dollars?
>> Well, you know, there there's two
reasons why we said the US curve has to
steepen here in order for the flows into
go gold to stop. One is that if there's
an economic contraction in the credit
cycle which everybody's focused on right
now. The other scenario is that we have
strong growth in the US the Fed eases
into that. We have loss of Fed central
bank independence and dd dollararization
just amplifies this and so the curve has
to steepen just to accommodate that. So
two scenarios, a weak economy and a
strong economy both would suggest that
one, gold is going to continue to see
flows and two the US Treasury curve in
order to compete with that needs to be
steeper. We just don't know whether it's
going to be a strong economy or weak
economy. But in both scenarios, yes,
absolutely you see the curve should
steepen and gold should continue to see
safe haven flows. But the ddollarization
story is another reason why gold is
rallying or picking up those overflows
into safe havens that would otherwise go
into treasuries.
>> So, you don't think we're seeing gold
move into a speculative stage? You think
there's going to be more flows? How much
higher could we see gold go?
Well, I I'm probably not an expert on on
the precious metals market, but I will
say this that near-term we look
overbought, but if you think about all
the potential flows into gold over the
next, let's say, year, a reasonable
estimate of 5,000 uh uh per ounce. I
mean, that that's not unreasonable at
this point in time because you're going
to continue to have central bank buying
because you're going to continue to see
the global, we'll call it, trade
environment deglobalize and there's
going to be less demand for dollars.
That's absolutely true. You're very
likely to see inflation reacelerate next
year driven by service sector inflation,
not tariffs and goods inflation, but
service sector inflation as the US
economy begins to stimulate and and
reacelerate ahead of midterm elections.
So all of those would suggest there's a
fundamental driver for gold to push
higher, but near-term I would argue that
we we're probably overbought here
because the flows definitely seem
speculative very near term.
>> So Tom, that's gold. This is where the
bond market move gets interesting for me
at least. If you believe that's going to
happen, we've got a bond market rallying
into potentially hotter inflation prints
and a Federal Reserve that given how
it's communicated over the past month is
willing to ignore those hot inflation
prints. Now, if the Fed's willing to
ignore hot inflation, Tom, will the
market will investors?
>> Uh, no. I don't think so. So, I think in
that scenario, you're talking about,
yes, there's credit concerns, but
they're manageable. The real issue is
that the US economy begins to
reacelerate. And in that scenario, the
curve bar steepens with tens pulling
away from twos, but eventually twos
pushing higher as well as the market
probably takes one of those rate cuts
from 2026 and just takes it off the
table. So you get a bare market
steepener, everything's pushing higher,
but tens push higher at a slightly
faster clip. That's our base case
forecast for this year with 10 forecast
to end the year back around that 430
zone. And next year tens pushing back up
close to 5% as the market realizes that
the fair is gone. There is an economy
that is still reasonably healthy and
treasury yields have to push higher to
accommodate the slightly higher pace of
inflation and still slightly higher pace
of growth too. That's an understandable
argument for higher bond yields at the
long end. Tom Sisorus of Strategus. Tom,
thank you sir. Today though, not seeing
that steeper curve. We're seeing a
flatter curve led by a move at the front
end. Yields up by just a basis point.
10's just about unchanged twos to 347
tends to around 4% in the bond market so
far this morning.
>> What's so interesting about the CPI
report, looking at the surveys, CPI
year-over-year 3.1%.
And yet the following week, the Fed is
likely going to be cutting interest
rates without the labor data that we
know that they have a bias towards right
now, but with hotter CPI.
>> No jobs data for September based on what
we've heard from the policy analysts
this morning. No data for October either
coming up. It's going to be a while.
It's going to take a few months.
>> They're going to be flying blind. We
will not get the jobs data. What we will
get in the increase following months is
potentially continuous CPI data. And
that's going to continuously basically
show potentially that it's a hotter
print. The Fed's going to keep cutting
into that.
>> Lots of earnings this week. Some data as
well. CPI coming out on Friday. That
delayed inflation report. Up next, we'll
catch up with Victoria Fernandas of
Crossmark, Dan Nars of Dan Nars
Investment Management, David Se for
Demora, George Borie of Allspring Global
Investments.
[Music]
I'm still optimistic actually that we
are not talking about an overvaluation.
I wouldn't say that the whole market is
overvalued.
>> We've heard about all the AI
infrastructure investment and that's
continuing to drive earnings.
>> You look at what's been happening in the
AI stocks. We've got all the classic
symptoms of a bubble. I do think it is a
bubble.
>> Broadly speaking, the markets are
holding up okay.
>> In situations like this, it's always
okay till it isn't okay. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance with Jonathan
Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and An Marie
Hordern.
>> The rally continues live from New York
City this morning. Good morning. Good
morning for our audience worldwide. The
third hour of Bloomberg surveillance
starts right now. And your scores look
like this. Equities higher by a third of
1% on the S&P 500. On the NASDAQ 100 up
by 0.4 outperformance on smalls, the
Russell up by 0.8. In the bond market,
pretty snooy so far this morning. might
not be at the back end of the week.
Twos's at 346, 10's at 4% at the back
end of the week. CPI data finally
released delayed from the last few
weeks. We'll get that this Friday,
October 24th. And in the leadup to all
of that, we'll get some earnings from
GM, Netflix, Tesla, and Intel. And
you'll get more of a conversation
between the US and China.
>> Right. Right, we're going to get more of
that conversation because the Treasury
Secretary is going to be sitting down
with Holly Fang, his counterpart, the
vice premere before President Trump and
Xi Jinping sit down. The contours of the
deal or agree mix, remember this truce
ends November 10th is going to be around
what the president outlined last night
in Air Force One. Rare earths, fentinol,
and soybeans. The issue is Jonathan, is
it going to be some grand bargain? Most
people say that this story is going to
continue until 2026.
>> Let's take rare earths. There is an
argument that China made a bit of a
strategic mistake by flexing its muscles
around its superior refining capacity on
that issue. Why? It's going to
accelerate US production. One, you're
going to see that anyway. And two, it
may well push the Europeans closer to
the Americans on this issue.
>> They almost already are. They are
talking about the fact that they're
having these discussions on the national
level and the European Union level about
what they need to do to combat what they
are going to be calling China's
weaponization of rare earths. We also
got data over the weekend. China's
shipments of these magnets down for a
second month. So, it's not just the
rhetoric. It's actually happening in
real time in terms of the exports.
>> Things might have calmed down just a bit
compared to where we were, but things
are still simmering going into those
negotiations. Equity futures this
morning. Firma by a third of 1%. Coming
up, we'll catch up with Victoria
Fernandez across market stocks are
rising to begin the new trading week.
Dan Nars of Nars Investment Management
with key tech earnings on deck. David C
for Namora as we're counting down to the
CPI report on Friday. We begin this hour
with stocks edging higher as investors
look for more rate cuts. Victoria
Fernand cross marks seeing it playing
out differently. She writes the
following. I anticipate the fewer cuts
are ahead of us than the market is
expecting. Victoria joins us now for
more. Victoria, welcome to the show.
Let's put some numbers on that. What's
the market looking for? What are you
expecting?
>> Yeah, well, we see Jonathan, the
market's expecting two cuts uh to come
in. I was actually thinking that we
would only see one more additional cut
this year and then probably not the two
early next year that the market is
pricing in as well. A lot of that
leading to the um coming from the fact
that I think you're going to see the
balance of risk shift back a little bit
towards the inflation. You and Anie were
talking about the CPI number about the
3.1% and that the Fed trying to cut
leading into higher inflation. I think
when you have a lack of data, especially
labor market data, which is where they
were so focused, but yet you're getting
inflation data saying that that's
higher, perhaps that balance, that shift
in the balance of risks, leads them to
the point where they can say, you know
what, maybe we hold off here. Maybe we
don't do anything because we don't know
what we're doing. We are flying blind
here um at this point in time and we get
one less cut. That could be one of the
reasons we might see a steeper curve and
we see yields move a little bit higher
as Tom was referencing earlier.
>> So here's the problem. Victoria chairman
Pal's expecting the same thing said in
Jackson Hole. We could see higher
inflation prints essentially a one-off
but not all at once. And Victoria, the
message I took away from that is get
ready for hot inflation prints maybe
through the remainder of this year, but
this is the Federal Reserve that's going
to ignore it. Why do you see it somewhat
differently?
Yeah, I just don't think you can
completely ignore the fact that
inflation is moving higher because I
don't think it's going to be just a
one-time adjustment. I do know obviously
oil prices are coming down. There's some
concerns around extra supply there. That
will have downward pressure on
inflation. I see that. But when you look
at some of the other areas, you have
service inflation moving higher. It's
not just goods inflation. That's not
tariff related. So if we're having
non-tariff related issues drive
inflation higher and we've actually seen
rents go higher, Red Fin was talking
about rents actually moving higher when
that's supposed to be a huge component
of what brings CPI down, then I think
you're going to have more pressure on
that side. And if it's not tariff
related, then I think the Fed has to
take a different approach to how they're
looking at inflation, especially if
they're not getting data on the labor
front or if the economy holds up. You're
looking at landfed GDP now what 3.8% on
GDP. So if you're having that strong
growth, if you're having earnings and
margin growth where um it's expected to
be 13% margin growth, then the labor
market should hold up pretty well.
You're also seeing monthly job break
even around 30,000 according to the New
York Fed. Without unemployment moving
higher, I think it's going to be harder
for the Fed to make um a sound argument
for those cuts if inflation moves
higher. Victoria though when we look at
tariffs do you think it is more than
just a one-time shock
>> I do think it's more Anarie and it's
because of the fact that it's not just
in the goods sector where we're seeing
that I totally understand if we're
saying all inflation is coming from
goods it's from the issues where we're
going to have tariffs that's the issue
we can look through that but it's just
not that's not what the data is showing
us I think it's really important on this
CPI number we get on Friday to dig down
into the weeds and see where things are
really coming from. If it continues to
be on the services side, then I think
you have to take a little bit of a
different approach, look at it through a
different lens and say this is something
that's building. It's not just one time
because of tariffs.
>> How uncomfortable is next year going to
be though with your case of inflation
basically remaining sticky and a new
regime at the Federal Reserve?
Yeah, you know, it's interesting because
when I look at the what you're calling
the new regime at the Federal Reserve, I
really feel like the heart of that is
all around uh banking regulation. And
with what happened last week, that is
going to start to shift. I know everyone
said, "Oh, the administration is trying
to get new people on there to lower
rates more to bring mortgage rates
down." We know there's not a direct
correlation between short rates, Fed
funds, and mortgages. We know it's the
longer part of the curve. I think more
of what the administration was trying to
do was get to where we could get banking
regulation and that's going to be a
harder uh hill to climb now because of
some of the issues we're seeing with the
regional banks with private credit. Um
so I do think there's going to be some
shifting um in how the Fed approaches
things, but I'm not sure that it's going
to make a huge difference in how they
move with Fed funds.
>> You mentioned the banks. Let's stay on
the banks. So we had a bounce back on
Friday and for those of you just joining
us this morning, good morning to you.
We've got to bounce back again this
morning. Zion up by 1.8%. Western
Alliance advancing as well. What we know
so far, Victoria, some isolated issues
possibly and I put the emphasis on
possibly
first brands and some fraud related
issues revealed by the likes of Zion and
Western Alliance in the last week or so.
Victoria, is that building up to
anything? What's the common thread
between all of that if there is one?
Yeah, we're not seeing, I don't think,
at this point in time, this huge thread
that's tying that all together. It does
seem, and I'm not going to use that
other eye word that I know you don't
like, Jonathan, but it does seem like
it's more kind of oneoff uh for some of
these companies, and they're smaller in
the sense that what it was less than 1%
um of the assets for Zion. So, it's not
a huge credit issue that is going to
build into a financial crisis that we
see typically before a recession. You
know, we've liked big banks for a long
time and one of our reasons is because
the strength of the balance sheets,
balance sheets are stronger because a
lot of the riskier debt was moving to
private credit. So, I think we have to
watch private credit, see what's
happening in that element. And if we see
defaults go up, but expectations for
defaults are not rising significantly
right now. That's something we need to
watch. And credit spreads, did they
widen out a little bit last week? Yes.
But guess what? at the end of last week.
We were right back to where we were
about a month ago on investment grade
credit. So I don't think we're getting
warning signals right now that it's a
broader issue. Credit I think is where
we have to really watch look at those
spreads and see what happens there.
Victoria, just from the outside looking
in, if I was a lay person away from all
of this and had no idea what anyone was
talking about, and then I listened to
this story and how it's played out in
the last week, I get that people are
saying it's in private credit and these
are issues for other people, but I'm
hearing this and seeing it in the banks.
I'm seeing it from JP Morgan themselves.
I know it's not a big issue in terms of
how big their balance sheet is is
nothing compared to what they were
talking about just last week. But
Victoria, are we overlooking the
potential that if it's one place that
we're all exposed to it? Well, I do
think we're overlooking some of the
flags that have been waving and we've
been talking about that for months. Um,
we've had these conversations with you
guys. We've had them with our clients.
There are little elements that we have
to watch. You can't just ignore them all
and say, "Great, it's a risk on market.
Everything's great. Earnings are great.
Let's just move on." This is a very what
we're calling a high-risk bull market.
And it's because of these elements
you're talking about. You have to pay
attention to these. They have to be
something that you watch right now. It's
not telling us we have to have huge
concerns that we need to do huge shifts
in our portfolio. But it is definitely
something you cannot ignore. You have to
watch it and see if you start to see
signs that tell you there are bigger
things ahead.
>> Idiosyncratic. I said it for you,
Victoria.
>> I wasn't going to use the word,
Jonathan.
>> I said it for you. I just I've never
liked that word.
>> I thought maybe you think institutional.
>> No, idiosyncratic. When when enough
people say the same word again and again
and again, it kind of undermines the
definition of the word, right? One-off.
How many times are people coming on the
program saying it's a one-off one if off
issues quickly pile up to become one big
issue,
>> right? And then it's it's multiple
one-offs and then it's actually one huge
snowball. I I hear you,
>> Victoria. Thank you. It's good to see
you. You didn't use it. Victoria
Fernandez across Global Investments.
Thank you very much. Let's give an
update on stories worldwide this morning
with your Bloomberg brief. Let's cross
over to Yahara Arn for more. Hey,
Yahara.
>> Hi, John. Amazon Web Services says most
of its operations are succeeding
normally after a widespread outage. The
disruption from the world's largest
cloud provider impacted a range of
services including AI companies,
government agencies, and financial
platforms. AWS identified a problem with
a regional gateway on the US East Coast
that caused the issue. Meanwhile,
President Donald Trump has announced
plans to meet with Russian President
Putin in Budapest in the coming weeks to
discuss an end to the war in Ukraine.
Ukraine's President Zilinski is
expressing caution though over the venue
due to Hungarian Prime Minister Victor
Orban's Russia friendly stance. Zilinski
says he'd still consider an invitation
to Budapest if it's in a formal setting
where the three leaders can meet.
And the Los Angeles Dodgers are heading
back to the World Series after sweeping
the Brewers thanks to Showi Otan's
historic game four on Friday night.
Meanwhile, the ALCS shifts to a winner
take all game seven after the Blue Jays
defeated the Mariners 6-2 on Sunday.
That series will conclude tonight in
Toronto to decide who faces the Dodgers
in the World Series. That's Bloomberg
Reef. John
>> Yharo, thank you. Thank you very much.
What that guy is doing,
>> it's insane.
>> He's unbelievable. He's unbelievable. I
want the Yankees to to you know bring
him over.
>> I'm trying to communicate this to the
Europeans what it would be the
equivalent of when it comes to say
European football. It it's like being
both Janu Buffon and Leon Messi at the
same time.
>> At the same time that's it's unheard of
honestly it's unheard of
>> incredible. Up next on the program the
morning calls plus Dan Niles of Niles
investment management as we look ahead
to key tech earnings. That conversation
just around the corner from New York
City this morning. Good morning.
[Music]
Right now, if there's any slippage in
earnings from the tech guys, I think
you're going to see a a more wobbly,
more volatile market because with the
lack of data and with the assumption
that the Fed's going to cut at the end
of this month, I think that right now
that is not as much of an open question.
But if you see anything in the earnings
or if you see any concern in the
earnings on the tech side or a slowdown
meaningfully somewhere, then I think
people really start to worry.
>> Typically, the big data point of any
given month is the payrolls report, but
you're not getting that. It's not CPI.
Arguably the biggest data point this
month for the economy and for the stock
market is the earnings from major tech
players later on over the next few weeks
>> and for whether or not the high-end
consumers can continue spending. Let's
see. Everyone keeps saying what the mega
cap tech companies have to say when it
comes to earnings. It feels like
everything is hinging on these earnings
reports and especially now given that
we're in this data desert from the US
government.
>> Equity futures positive here by 0.3%.
The NASDAQ up by point4. Our performance
on small caps, the Russell up by 0.8.
That's the price action into the opening
bar 1 hour and about 14 minutes away.
Let's get you some morning calls. First
up, William Blair initiating coverage on
USA Rare Earth with an outperform
believing the company may get a sizable
investment from guess who? The US
government. That stock is up by close to
9%. Your second call from TDK upgrading
Alli Financial to buy, highlighting its
credit and margin strength. And finally,
Loop Capital are granting Apple to buy
with the street height target of 315,
seeing a material upside for iPhone
estimates. Let's stick with Apple. The
17 appears to be reinvigorating its
upgrade cycle. According to Counterpoint
Research, the new model has outsold its
predecessor by 14% in its first 10 days
in the US and China. Mandep Singer
Bloomberg Intelligence joins us now for
more. Mandep, it looks like some better
news for the iPhone and for Apple.
Yeah, look, I I think China has always
been a big market for Apple and this
refresh cycle probably is going to be no
different. And the way to think about it
is like for someone like Nvidia, they
have completely derised from China, it
reflects in their guide. in the case of
Apple because they are so deeply
integrated in terms of the supply chain
in terms of the jobs uh for the Chinese
market that it's very unlikely that you
know they will be completely banned or
prevented from selling into the China
market. So from that perspective uh I
think it makes sense that you are seeing
a refresh cycle there.
>> Amand is it the start of the upgrade
super cycle that Dan Ives of Wedbush has
been waiting for for for so many years?
>> Not yet. I don't we don't think so
simply because Apple doesn't have uh you
know a good large language model
strategy neither do their chips can run
these models on device until that
happens they are behind Android
ecosystem that's where you know the
Google pixel devices even though they
don't have a lot of market share they do
very well in terms of the capabilities
because at least you've got you know a
native LLM that's running uh some of the
functionality so Apple needs that
>> better news for that company Mandep
appreciate your time Mandy and Deep Sync
there of Bloomberg Intelligence. Apple
by 1.4% in the pre-market. Let's stick
with tech. Investors looking ahead to
Max 7 earnings with Tesla kicking things
off on Wednesday. Dan Niles of Niles
Investment Management writing, "The
higher the AI bubble takes stock
valuations, the more painful the decline
is going to be for investors on the
other side." Dan joins us now for more.
Dan, good morning, sir, and thanks for
making time for us. We appreciate it.
Let's just think about how you see
valuations currently and whether we risk
undermining those valuations with the
earnings we'll receive in the next few
weeks. Uh valuations are high no matter
how you want to look at it. Price to
sales on the S&P 500 is above the 2000
bubble peak. Um market cap to GDP, which
is Warren Buffett's favorites, is above
the 2000 peak. I don't think it matters.
I think you're going to see valuations
extend further. I'm very bullish. I
think the market goes to new highs
before Thanksgiving. There's one simple
reason for it. It's easy money. The
Fed's going to cut. I think Jonathan,
you had it right in a prior segment
where you said the Fed's going to look
at any inflation data, say it's
transitory. They've convinced themselves
it's that way, just like they did in
2021. And they're going to cut at least
twice this year, potentially another
couple of times next year. And then
don't forget, you're going to get a new
Fed chairman in May. President Trump's
going to appoint him, and that chairman
is going to want rates even much lower
than where the current trajectory is. So
unfortunately, and I say unfortunately
because I think this bubble could
inflate a lot higher, the fall on the
other side of that is going to be
vicious, much like we saw in 2000. But
right now, you got to be bullish and try
to take advantage of this because you
don't know how much higher that th that
this can get. Much like Allan Greenspan
famously said, irrational exuberance in
1996, the S&P then doubled over the next
four years before it finally broke. I
think you have to look at it the same
way this time.
>> And Dan, you touched on something
important and I do wonder to what extent
it's still underappreciated. Just how
easy money could be next year. There's a
massive focus on financial conditions
now. I understand why. But do you think
people are still struggling to
appreciate just what 2027 2026 is going
to bring?
>> Absolutely. And this is the reason.
Think about it this way. If I told you,
"Hey, Jonathan, we're going to get a
global pandemic." Your first thought
isn't to rush out and buy stocks. Well,
that's exactly what you should have done
because the S&P finished the year up
14%. But why? It's because you jammed
into the US economy about half of GDP
between what the Fed did and the US
government did in about two years. Money
supply was up 25% year-over-year. And to
put it into perspective during the
Richard Nixon era of high inflation in
the 70s, money supplies
uh fastest growth was up 12%
year-over-year. So, I think that's
what's going to happen. And that's why I
look at the valuations and I go, they're
just going to keep extending because you
can find some measures where the market
doesn't look as expensive. You can look
at PE measures or free cash flow, but
you know the top level things that I
tend to look at and go, well, companies
are over earning right now probably.
There's no way you can't come to the
conclusion all metrics are extended.
It's just some are more extended than
others. But as we've seen in the past,
it just doesn't matter when there's a
ton of money coming into the markets.
And don't forget, the Fed's probably
going to quit quantitative tightening as
well at the end of this month because of
some of the credit issues you rightly
brought up, such as First Brands and
Triricolor, etc. They're going to quit
the tightening. That's going to act like
another rate cut in some ways on top of
the 25 we all know we're going to get.
So Dan, let's go with the credit issues
as well and let's pair that with the
period coming out of the pandemic and
through the pandemic too. This was
something we were talking about. Lots of
money flushed into the system. Fiscal
policy was easy. Monetary policy was
excessively easy and confidence in
markets was sky-high. And as you often
hear from credit investors, the worst of
loans made in the best of times. Now
they're starting to worry that maybe
we're seeing the consequences of that
period inricolor in first brands. And
people get nervous. There's always
something to worry about in markets.
Stan, you know that people get nervous.
There's more to come. What would you say
to them this morning?
>> Well, here's the thing. You look at how
Jeff has acted, which had exposure to
it. It's ob obviously, you know,
stressful, but they have 69 billion in
assets. You look at what Western
Alliance or Zion said about fraud that
they were involved with, you know,
obviously stressful, but that's 180
billion in assets. But look at the banks
last week. the four biggest banks in the
US reported. You also have the two
biggest investment banks report. Between
them, there's 11 trillion in assets.
They all talked about the fact that you
know what, things look pretty good to
them. Yes, when there's one cockroach,
there might be more as a CEO of JP
Morgan said, but you're always going to
have some defaults. That's what happens.
But the question is, are you properly
diversifying your portfolio so you're
not getting impacted by them? And the
four biggest investment banks and the
two largest, sorry, the two largest
investment banks, four biggest banks in
the US, you didn't see anything really
out of that, out of the ordinary that
you'd expect. So that's why I think
you're going to look back and say
there's more coming, but this is there's
always some bad loans made during
cycles. Dan, if we go back to AI for a
moment, when do you think it'll be the
time when the revenues will not be
enough and you can see potentially that
hit to individuals that are bullish on
these stocks as potentially these
companies do not have the revenue or the
capex left to continue spending?
>> Well, it's not a question of when, it's
when do investors care because you could
argue we're there already, right? If you
look at capex for the uh biggest
hyperscalers, the five biggest out there
over the past three calendar years,
including this one, they will have spent
about 800 billion in capex. Just this
year alone, it'll be a little bit over
400 billion, up 60% year-over-year
in terms of AI native revenues. So
companies that don't have other
businesses but just focus on AI, the
cumulative revenues this year will be 20
billion. Now if you look at Open AI in
particular, they're 13 out of that 20
billion and they're expected to lose 8.5
billion in cash burn this year. So
you're already at a point where you
could consider it problematic. But much
like in the late 1990s,
people aren't going to care until
there's an issue. And something like
what we've seen withricolor or first
branch, you see, except you see that
with some of these data centers that are
highly leveraged. You haven't gotten
there yet because the cash flow at these
big hyperscalers is still very strong.
And so they can still afford to invest,
invest, invest trying to get to this,
you know, artificial generalized
intelligence, which is, you know, kind
of the holy grail, which everyone wants
to get to.
>> But until the stock market starts to
punish you, you're not going to see it.
And with the Fed doing what it's doing
and us getting a hyper, you know, dovish
Fed chairman, it's probably not going to
get there for a while. I think by the
end of next year, that's when you're
going to run into a problem cuz the rate
cuts will all be done. You're going to
then have to justify these massive cash
burns and I think that's when things are
going to interesting.
>> Dan, I appreciate it. Dan Niles of Niles
Management
at the Up and Bound this Monday morning
60 minutes away. Equity futures on the
S&P 500 firm up by 0.3% on the Nasdaq up
by point4. Some big out performance on
the Russell. Small caps up by 0.9
going into the cash open with just an
hour to go until you're open and bound.
Let's get you some morning movers with
your single names. Here's Yahihara with
more. Hey yra.
>> Hi John. Cleveland Clips posted a solid
earnings beat this morning, but it was
its comments on rare earth minerals that
stole the spotlight and is sending
shares up 10% in the pre-market.
Cleveland clips says it's exploring
mining rare earth minerals from its iron
ore deposits. And with the Trump
administration of course taking stakes
in these rare earth companies and vowing
to protect the sector, it is no surprise
investors are pushing up the stock this
morning. Meanwhile, moving on to stable
offshore, also jumping 12% in the
pre-market after US energy secretary
Chris Wright showed support on X for the
company's California oil project. The
company has been stuck in waiting mode
on state approval to reopen pipelines
off the Santa Barbara coast. Analysts
say that the federal backing provides
confidence that the project could start
up in late 2026. And a check on Boeing
shares, they are up 1.4%. Honor
reporting that the FAA has approved a
boost in their 737 production to 42 jets
a month. The increase could start as
soon as November and with plans to
eventually hit 47. Of course, the
production boost is key for Boeing's
comeback and in its rivalry against
Airbrust whose aircraft has been selling
fast. John
>> Yhara, thank you. Just to touch on that
energy story. You know, energy and
mining CEOs are the original corporate
diplomats, not the tech players of the
moment, which is why Rex Tillerson was
such an inspired choice all those years
ago to become the Secretary of State.
But this has moved onto a different
phase. the amount of integration we
might see between the White House and
that space in the years to come. Wow,
are we seeing results already.
>> Yeah, it's unbelievable. I've also
spoken to sources in Washington that
tell you, yes, expect more of these
outright equity stakes because they feel
like they are too far behind when it
comes to China and they think this is
the best way to get a handle and a grip
on the fact that the United States
really doesn't have access to the rare
earths. And as China's going to use them
and control them and not allow the
exports of these magnets, you have a
huge problem. Forget your iPhone. You
have a huge problem in the defense
sector.
>> We've joked about this. It's like a list
of names. Everyone's got them. Just
waiting for that big big move in one of
them to get bought out or at least
invested in by the US government.
>> I mean, look at William Blair today.
They put one of them as a new buy rating
in anticipation of this looks like a
company the US president would like to
take an equity stake in. It shot up to
double digits pre-market. Big moves in
the pre-market on that name. Equally
futures more broadly doing okay. Up a
third of 1% as we count you down to
inflation data out later this week.
Delayed CPI because of the government
shutdown. Bloomberg Xander Karen joins
us now for more. And just briefly
explain what's special about this. Why
are we getting this and not payrolls?
>> It's due to the cost of living
adjustment calculations that are made
around this time of year, Jonathan. So
the BLF staff have had to come back in
and make sure the data is released.
That's the practical mechanical side of
it. Of course, it's also a critical
piece of the jigsaw for the Fed, too.
>> And how difficult is it to collect this
data when the government is shut down?
>> I think it's going to put a lot of it is
difficult to collect it, number one,
Jonathan, but number two, it kind of
adds to the overall sense of scrutiny on
the collection methodology behind some
of the key data inputs at the moment and
not just for the period where the
government is shut down, but also the
catchup period when the government comes
back to work and how they meld all of
this together. A lot of economists are
worried that the data sets we'll get now
both say on the critical components of
jobs inflation will kind of be out of
whack for a little while. H but
nonetheless all that said when we get
these numbers Friday there will be a lot
of focus both on services where what are
the costs of shelter how is that
changing either direction what's going
on with airline fairs and then of course
what's happening on the good side any
any hint of feed through from tariffs.
So there's going to be a lot to break
down when these numbers come out on
Friday.
>> And isn't it strange that this will be
the one official data point the
government does have can provide us and
the Federal Reserve will sit around the
table next Tuesday for two days conclude
the meeting on Wednesday probably cut
interest rates and maybe with inflation
with a three handle and no jobs report.
>> Look it's very John there's there's no
other way of saying it. Um to your point
the Fed have signaled very publicly what
they're sort of on track to do. So the
markets expect that rate cut next uh
week regardless. But if these numbers on
Friday come in, adding to the idea that
look, there's still persistent inflation
out there. It's not all about, as we
know, it's not all about the tariff
story. Look what's happening in
services. If core inflation still
remains around with a tree handle, well
above the Fed's target, then okay, the
Fed cuts in October. But there's there
are some economists asking what happens
in December and then what happens in
2026. So if these numbers come in, you
know, on on the high side, it will
certainly complicate the Fed story going
forward. If they come in on the low on
the benign side, then you would have to
say it probably gives a green light for
the Fed to keep going the way they are.
>> Ander, great work as always. We'll be
following you this week and Karen there
of Bloomberg down in Washington DC.
Let's stick with the data. David Se of
Neora looking ahead to Friday's print.
He writes the following. We see an
acceleration in the core goods inflation
due to tariff induced price pressures
and a mild deceleration in core
services. David joins us now for more.
David, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Bit of give and take there.
>> Yes.
>> Yeah. Let's start with the services
prices inflation. Why are we going to
see that roll over just a touch?
>> Yeah. So we we should divide services
into housing services and let's just say
everything else. Um so housing services
were a little bit unexpectedly hot last
month. Uh no reason to expect that to
continue. So we we see uh housing prices
price inflation gradually getting better
and that should start this month or with
this this Friday's print. So no reason
to think otherwise on that. Now if you
look at everything else that's in core
services that's what we would call super
core and that does seem to be ticking up
a little bit um number of things going
into that um but it is really I would
say overall a broad-based uh set of uh
services inflation there outside of
housing
>> when it comes to the actual data
collection these individuals weren't
deemed essential at the start of the
government shutdown they were brought
back because of the issues endo was
talking about when it comes to um
>> cost of living
>> are you worried that the data is going
to be murky.
>> Certainly seems as though there's a risk
of how of what the data quality will be.
I think that this coming CPI report,
this one on Friday, is likely to be one
of the better ones. They uh these
individuals were not actually uh on
furlow for all that long. So, they're
not that far behind schedule. I think
what's going to be more worrisome is uh
next month uh or whenever whenever the
shutdown ends as people come uh back
from uh to the BLS and start to do work,
they're going to have to go and survey
people about what their job status was
at some point in the past. And um people
are not terribly great at giving answers
about what's going on right now and uh
they're even worse about it when when
asking about things that happened in the
past. So, we're through the survey week
for um for what should have been the
early uh November uh jobs report. And so
already, even if the shutdown were to
end today and people were to come back
tomorrow, they're already going to have
to ask about stuff that have happened
retroactively.
And uh given that it seems as though the
shutdown could continue for a couple
more weeks, it will be that much further
in the past that people will be asked
about. So it almost feels like this
decision for the Fed to cut interest
rates is going to be easier say one at
the end of the year.
>> Yeah. I So this one it's hard to see
what justification they would have for
deviating from the dot plot barring a
major surprise in uh this Friday CPI
report. But the big thing that drove
them we think to this more dovish shift
has been the deceleration of the loss of
momentum in the in the jobs market. And
of course they won't have any real data
on that uh going into this meeting. So
we see that as as something that's
likely to happen. We expect there to be
another cut in December as well. But I
do think it's a little bit more of a
question mark. And if you look at the I
would say enormous variation within Fed
speak that has occurred since the
September meeting, you definitely see a
lot of sort of the more hawkish members
of uh the Fed starting to push back,
starting to say, "Okay, fine. We concede
the October uh cut, but we really think
we should be much more careful about
future cuts."
>> Why do they feel more emboldened? Well,
I I I'm not even sure that they feel
more emboldened perhaps. I think it's
just that they sort of had the uh they
had the uh the what was it? The
tablecloth yanked from under them, so to
speak, at the September meeting. It was
a a pretty unexpectedly dovish shift in
uh the Fed. Um, not such a surprise that
they cut rates at all and not even such
a surprise that they were signaling some
additional rate cuts, but the big
surprise was that they did all that
while upgrading all of their economic
forecasts and increasing their inflation
expectations. So, you had a shift in
their data expectations that were
entirely hawkish and yet a shift in
their rate expectations which was
entirely dovish. And I think that really
is something that the hops are are
fighting back against.
>> I sat in this seat as those numbers came
out and thought exactly the same thing.
It was strange. I also think it's
strange the way Chairman Pal
communicated at the end of August to
essentially tell everyone they can
ignore hot inflation prints and
potentially for a long period of time.
The argument coming from the chairman at
the moment is transitory just without
the word. When he says we could see
inflation pick up, but it'll be a
one-off and not all at once, that's
basically telling people that anything
between now and maybe through year end,
if you get higher inflation prints, you
can ignore it. Do you think that's a
mistake?
>> I think we should be very careful about
cutting into higher inflation. I do
think though that this is consistent
with how Powell has uh been in his
almost eight years as Fed chair. Um I
don't think this has much to do with
political pressure or anything like that
from the Trump administration. We have
seen Powell tack dovishly repeatedly uh
throughout his time as Fed chair when
there are uh relatively small hiccups in
the data. This time it's in the the
inflation data and and often times he's
been proven right. Um this time we think
uh maybe some caution is warranted I
would say.
>> Why is this time different?
>> Well, this time we don't really see
inflation momentum moving back down to
2% in a in a clear and compelling way.
And that's actually a stark contrast
from a year ago and it's a contrast to
say precoid. Uh both of those times
inflation was either at or near target
or at least appeared to be moving back
towards target. Here inflation still
seems to be coming in with prints that
are well above uh the 2% target.
>> Can you see the next regime post Powell
actually looking to target just a target
2 to 3% and not actually try to get
inflation back down to 2%?
>> Oh, absolutely. I mean, we we we've seen
we've seen some of the more dovish
people on the Fed, Myron, Bowman,
Waller, all talk about the idea that an
explicit 2% inflation target um may not
be the the way to go. And and that that
actually isn't super crazy in in in the
in terms of what the Fed has
historically done. That's really what
the Fed did until post GFC when under
the Bernani Fed it was changed to an
explicit 2% target. And the reason for
that was to make it clear to people that
the the Fed was not going to be happy
with inflation well below 2%. And so it
was really to try to move inflation
expectations up. The question is has it
time to retire that that mentality.
We're certainly not in that world right
now where we're flirting with uh
deflation or anything like that.
>> Aren't they operating as if they don't
have a 2% inflation target anyway?
Um it's certainly a thing one could say
given the September uh the September uh
shift. Um inflation is above target. It
doesn't appear that it's going to get
back there in 2026. Uh growth looks to
be close to at trend and accelerating.
And you put all that together and uh
when they come out with a do shift and
in the face of all that it does make it
seem as though they are more tolerant of
above 2% inflation than before.
>> What is different? What's changed about
this economy that makes it harder to get
inflation back down to 2%. When we used
to have the opposite problem.
>> Yeah, I I I I don't think it's a a
long-term change. I think that we are
still uh dealing with the maybe last bit
of the hangover from uh the co postcoid
period. Um I think we were well on track
to get there uh in 2026. I I think also
that the tariffs are probably going to
add a little bit to inflation, less
perhaps than some of the big fears and
not in a way that would necessarily lead
to anything like what we had postco, but
there's a there's a difference between
saying it won't be as bad as feared and
saying it will be zero. We still think
there's something there. David, it's
good to see you here. We'll be looking
for that something when the data comes
out on Friday. David Se there of Neora.
Equity futures on the S&P positive by
0.4% 4% with an update on stories
worldwide with your Bloomberg brief.
Here's Yahihara. Hey, Yahihara.
>> Hi, John. President Donald Trump has
shared some of his top demands from
China ahead of further trade talks. Rare
earths, fentinel, and soybeans are all
listed as top issues. The US and China
will hold talks later this week in
Malaysia with the fragile trade truths
between the two countries set to expire
on November 10th. Meanwhile, EU energy
ministers have agreed to a joint
position to ban all gas supplies from
Russia by the end of 2027. Hungary and
Slovakia did not support the ban despite
ongoing pressure from the US. The block
aims to reach a final deal before the
end of the year. And another NFL Sunday
is in the books. The Denver Broncos
pulled off a stunning win, erasing a
19-point fourth quarter deficit to
defeat the Giants 33-32. Elsewhere, the
Patriots won their fourth straight game
while the Eagles got their offense
rolling in a win over the Vikings. And
in prime time, the San Francisco 49ers
grounded out a 20-10 victory over the
Falcons. Dutch Bloomberg Reef. John,
>> the Jets are so bad they don't even
exist in the news rap anymore.
>> I know the producers are like it's not
even worth putting them in. I'm so
sorry, Muhammad Alan, cuz he was at the
game. The poor guy.
>> If you're watching this morning,
Muhammad, I don't feel your pain cuz I
don't support the Jets. But it's
unfortunate. Let's put it that way. Up
next on the program setting you up for
the day ahead plus George Borie of
Allspring Global Investments. That
conversation up next.
[Music]
This is probably my unpopular opinion,
but I have to say I'm I'm not sure that
Fed rate cuts really mean a huge amount
for the economy. Financial conditions
aren't pulling back um or easing as much
as as many people might think just by
looking at at the Fed funds. Whereas
obviously equity stocks are having a
much bigger impact on overall financial
conditions in that first um phase of
pass through.
>> The wealth effect helping upper income
Americans keep spending. We've got this
strange gap between employment huge step
down and retail sales which have been
pretty punchy still coming out of
summer. Equity futures on the S&P gun
into the opening bow firmer by 0.4% on
the S&P 500 on the Nasdaq up by.5 on the
Russell. Small caps up by one full
percentage point. That's the price
action as we count you down to the
opening bow. The rest of the trading
week shaping up as follows. Later on
today, the president meeting with the
Australian prime minister at the White
House. Look out for that. China very
much in focus. On Tuesday, earnings from
Netflix and GM. Wednesday, Tesla and
IBM. On Thursday, more earnings from
Intel and Ford. And then on Friday, the
main data point of the week, CPI data
just around the corner. And going into
the weekend, you'll get um consumer
sentiment. Let's stick with the data.
George Borie of Allspring Global
Investments writing the following. We
expect the Fed to cut rates further, but
the pace may be slow and measured,
reflecting ongoing inflationary
pressures. George joins us now for more.
George, good morning.
>> Morning, John. Building on the previous
conversation, where are those ongoing
inflationary pressures coming from?
What's the source?
>> Yeah, I mean, the source, I think, is
pretty clear. Um, you know, we're seeing
sort of small movements of prices moving
up kind of continuously. It's not one
broad-based movement, but sort of little
flares coming up. You know, that
companies are trying to push prices
through where possible where you have
good demand. you mentioned, you know,
that's uh the the the K-shaped economy,
if you will, allows pricing pressure in
premium goods, in high demand products,
in certain commodities, but in the lower
end of the spectrum, you're not seeing
any price pressure. And so, on average,
prices are moving up, but they're moving
up mildly. I think that's what the bond
market sees. That's what the bond market
is is kind of looking through. And the
expectation is that pricing power is not
going to persist. That you've got a
couple more months for this to run, but
but perhaps we've already crested and
you're likely to start seeing that come
down once we get into the new year.
>> That's goods inflation. Is there a
services offset playing out here?
>> Yeah, again, you know, I think there's
there's a two-tiered component on
services as well, you know, where
there's pricing power, demand at the
upper end of the economy or the upper
end of the income spectrum is is very
strong. demand for you know tech
services for AI equipment for where the
you know follow the money it's very
simple like where are people making
money and then where are people spending
money and there's good strong pricing
power there but you move one shade away
and the pricing power fades pretty
pretty quickly. So you know there is
this kind of upward drift on average but
we know that it's not consistent. it's
not universally spread across the whole
market and you're seeing some of that
bubble up. Some of the credit concerns
that we're seeing in the bond market,
you know, are because certain parts, you
know, maybe you've lost some pricing
power because your client your your your
client um base is is doesn't have the
spending power that's necessary to keep
pace with some of these broad-based
inflation fears.
>> Will the Fed rate cuts help those
individuals?
>> Yeah, that's a great that's a great
question and a great point. Not
necessarily. at least not yet. Um, you
know, as we've seen, uh, the long lead
time, the variables, uh, are are pretty
long and drawn out at this point. And so
on the margin, you know, does easier
monetary policy help growth over time?
Yes, it does. I think that's pretty well
established. However, is it going to
suddenly create sort of a a spark in job
creation? Probably not. you know that
will take time much more time than
perhaps you know monetary policy um will
will will actually um kind of kind of
drive. We know there's limitations to
monetary policy and the connect between
rate cuts and job creation. You know
that part is is is a little loose to say
the least.
>> The Fed is also somewhat flying blind.
They're going to have CPI but they're
not going to have the labor data.
>> How has that made your job difficult?
>> It does make our job difficult. uh you
know the Fed, we follow the same data
that's released uh that the Fed follows,
but the Fed has tremendous resources uh
to be able to kind of try to monitor the
economy in real time. Uh we don't have
that advantage and there's sort of
private sector data uh that we can tap
into. Uh there's survey data that we can
tap into. So we can have a pretty good
feel for the general level, but the
granularity is is harder to to come by
and and the longer the government
shutdown lasts, the harder it gets. So
then you kind of you have to pull in the
reins from a risk-taking perspective
because you have to build a wider margin
of error directionally. The economy does
seem to be slowing, decelerating, but
not collapsing. So we feel good about
that. John's question about inflation
very, very pertinent. And it's difficult
to tell with precision exactly where
inflation is. We think it's mildly
moving up, but we we want the data. We
want the granularity to be able to say
with a certain degree of confidence, how
much is it going up? Maybe where is the
cresting point? And then importantly,
how does that distribute through the
economy? It's challenging to do that
with a lot of precision right now.
>> Let's tap into this bond market. So
yields have dropped, fallen across the
curve. Two's are down to 350, sub 350
now. 10's around 4%, 399. So far this
morning, the extra reason to buy bonds
in the last week, yeah, worries about a
turn in the credit cycle. Yeah. Do you
share the concerns?
>> So, we share some concerns. You know,
obviously there's been a lot of talk
about some very, you know, highlevel
defaults. When $20 billion company
defaults, that's concerning and that
does draw a lot of attention. It's scary
and it should be scary. Um however when
we sort of continue to dig into as much
detail and data as is available you know
it does sort of look to be somewhat
contained in the sense that it's
idiosyncratic. It's company specific.
There are certain elements of
overleveraging that that's occurred. The
credit cycle itself you know is it it's
a very straightforward um uh kind of
pattern. you know, kind of money rushes
in, it gets lent, and then somebody
along the way kind of stumbles. And then
the question is, is it a whole group
stumble or is it just one individual? Or
does one individual fallen and everyone
falls over that person? Uh, right now
it's it still looks like it's one person
that's fallen, but but we know that
there's been explosive growth in private
credit. There's been very robust
issuance even in the in the public
market as well. And so borrowing, the
the the wheels of credit are turning.
They're turning pretty pretty quickly
and pretty smoothly and that in and of
itself has helped the economy and so it
doesn't look like that's slowing down.
It's it maybe it's slowing down a bit
but it doesn't seem to be stopping at
all.
>> Can I just ask you a question? How you
draw a distinction between one or the
other? Something that's idiosyncratic
and something that's broadly more
problematic.
>> Yeah. No, that's a very good question
and and you know when you have a series
of uncorrelated events happening at the
same time they in in in and of
themselves can cause you know sort of
concern because the collective um uh the
collective view is that we need to then
pull back um kind of risk-taking and
then that starts a bit of a domino
effect. There's maybe a mini element of
that happening right now but it does
seem to be on the margin and I think you
have two very strong things going for
you. their macro. You know, one is the
Fed. We just talked about it. The Fed's
cutting rates. That tends to help
financial markets more broadly. And then
really importantly is that profitability
is still strong up and down the
corporate sector. And that in and of
itself is a major major driver for what
kind of keeps cycles rolling. So you can
you can handle you can absorb a fair
number of stumbles along the way uh even
if they happen in close sequence. Um but
when you have sort of this behind uh
this tailwind behind you, it is a little
bit more difficult to to sort of broadly
um kind of kind of spread and go from
what's idiosyncratic to systemic. What I
think between those two is a correction.
And I think that's where we are. It's
like a credit cycle correction. These
these are big defaults. They're in very
notable names that are like right at the
at the at the precision middle of the
credit cycle. Y
>> but it's also there's like a cascading
effect where you know lenders are now
scouring their portfolios like how much
factoring do we have in the portfolio?
Who are we lending to?
>> Journalists trying to work out the same
thing.
>> Exactly. And so
>> scary headlines from Jamie Diamond.
George I'm up against the clock but this
was fantastic. Thank you for having
Thank you, sir. Appreciate it. George
Borie of Allspring Global Investments
from New York City this morning. Good
morning. We'll see you tomorrow morning.
[Music]